No surprise writer-director Mike Mills th Century Women is semi-autobiographical, given the authentic, bittersweet, sometimes lyrical, nostalgia-baked tone of the wonderful screenplay.
The real surprise is the source material wasnt a novel. Even as a movie, th Century Women feels like a slim but engrossing novel you read twice in college and tell all your friends they have to read it as well.
Set in Santa Barbara, California, in the late s, th Century Women is told from the point of view of -year-old Jamie Lucas Jade Zumann, who is growing up in a boarding house that appears to be in a constant state of renovation.
Jamies a typical teenage boy  a little bit lost, a little bit adventurous, a little bit horny, a little bit scared. His journey is the least interesting element in the story, but that feels at least partially by design, as his main purpose is to serve as a conduit to tell us about three unique, colorful, deeply influential women who will shape his life forever:
 Abbie Greta Gerwig, punk-loving aspiring photographer in her s with a crazy hairstyle and an almost manic thirst for embracing life.
 Julie Elle Fanning, a neighbor girl who is two years older than Jamie and is sexually active with a number of boys  but when she climbs into bed with Jamie nearly every night, she makes it clear things must remain platonic, because their friendship is something special and sex will only ruin it.
 And most prominently, theres Jamies mother Dorothea Annette Bening, who was not young when she gave birth to Jamie, found herself raising Jamie by herself after a divorce  and is feeling increasingly lost in her efforts to connect with her teenage son.
Dorothea asks Julie and Abbie to in effect help her raise Jamie. Given that Abbie lives in the house as a boarder and Julie is at the house nearly every night, it kinda feels like theyre already doing that anyway in their own fashion, so its no big stretch for them to agree.
Another fixture in the house is William Billy Crudup, a carpenter and all-around handyman who is spearheading the renovations. Crudup is so good playing easy charmers who are well aware of their effect on women and not averse to taking advantage of it  but feel almost sheepish doing so.
Dorothea is a fascinatingly complex woman. When her old beater of a car catches on fire in a parking lot and Dorothea invites a couple of firemen for dinner that night, she comes across as nearly pathetic  until we cut to the dinner and we realize the firefighters are fortunate to have been invited. And so it goes for much of the journey, as Dorothea becomes an ever-more interesting character, thanks to Mills writing and Annette Benings beautifully calibrated performance.
At times the late s cultural touchstones seem a little forced and overdone, what with Abbie reading 'Our Bodies, Ourselves'' Dorothea trying to understand punk rock, and a group viewing of President Jimmy Carters infamous malaise speech, in which he spoke of a crisis of confidence among the American people. And some of Jamies exploits are dumb and selfish, even for a -year-old, making us impatient for the focus to shift away from him and back to the woman or even William the handyman, all of who are more fully drawn and compelling figures.
Crudup, Gerwig and Fanning are superb  but this is Annette Benings movie, and she delivers one of the finest performances of her career as a middle-aged hippie mom who refuses to let her own disappointment and heartbreak get in the way of fighting with every fiber of her being to make sure her son has the best life he can possibly have.
Theres not a single false, actor-y note in Benings work. It is a master class in nuanced acting, and it is deserving of an Academy Award.
'th Century Women' co-star Lucas Jade Zumann will participate in a Qamp'A after the film's : p.m. Saturday screening at Landmark Century Centre.
