Like the Star Wars saga, the Alien franchise is something of a chronological Rubiks Cube, in that the movies coming out now predate the movies from the s and s on the fictional timeline.
This makes for some onscreen techno-anachronisms.
Example. Ridley Scotts Alien: Covenant takes place prior to the events of the original Alien , but since it was filmed in the mid-s, its an impressive technical achievement, with amazing CGI special effects plunging us deep into outer space and deep into the future.
If you go back and watch Alien as I did, its a great movie  but of course it has those late s special effects and production values and hairstyles, and a nearly -year-old vision of what computers and space travel and synthetic robot beings would be like in the year .
Alien: Covenant is set  years after Prometheus, which took place in , so now were in , about two decades prior to the events of Alien, and if that doesnt mess with your mind, wait until you see the Dueling Fassbenders portion of the current movie.
This is the third-best Alien movie, with James Camerons Aliens as the standard-bearer, and the original directed by a young Ridley Scott close behind. There are high-falutin references to the likes of Byron and Wagner and Shelley  but at its core, Covenant is a glorified monster movie, with some great gotcha! scare moments and, yes, a number of scenes in which a number of supposedly super-smart characters do some really stupid things that get them killed dead-dead-dead.
I gotta take a leak, announces one character during a dicey moment when its probably best not to wander off.
Dont go too far, says his partner, watching him as he scampers off into the outer-space equivalent of the woods surrounding the cabin in a slasher movie. Its hardly a spoiler to say in the history of scary movies, when someone says they have to go to the bathroom, they rarely just do their business and happily return to the flock.
After a haunting prelude that looks like it was filmed as an homage to Stanley Kubrick, featuring the synthetic artificial human that calls himself David Michael Fassbender and Peter Weyland Guy Pearce, the billionaire founder of the Weyland Corp., we join the Covenant, a massive colony ship on a seven-year journey to a faraway planet.
Theres only conscious entity aboard Covenant: Walter, a next-generation synthetic who looks exactly like David, which is convenient seeing as how Michael Fassbender plays both synthetics. Everyone else is in the midst of a multi-year cryogenic hyper sleep  but Walter has to awaken the crew when a freak accident plunges the ship into emergency mode.
The beloved captain of the ship dies, leaving the by-the-book, self-doubting Oram Billy Crudup in command.
Sidebar: Its a bit of a distraction that the quickly-killed-off captain of the Covenant is played by a well-known star. We keep wondering if this character is going to somehow return, because why else would a popular leading man take such a tiny role?
Key crew members aboard the Covenant include the smart and resourceful Daniels Katherine Waterston, who was married to the late captain' the calm and collected Karine Carmen Ejogo, who is married to the CURRENT captain Crudup, and the wisecracking, cowboy-hat-wearin pilot Tennessee Danny McBride, who is married to the tough-as-nails Faris Amy Seimetz.
All of this coupling makes sense, when you consider the goal of the mission is to land on a distant planet and stay there for the duration.
When the Covenant receives a mysterious distress signal, Oram believes it could lead them to a paradise planet even more suited to human life than their original planned destination. Ignoring Daniels warnings, Oram directs the ship to the mysterious but lush, warm and inviting planet.
Of course, theres trouble lurking just around the bend. Its only a matter of time before nasty creatures rear their ugly heads and bare their sharp teeth, and various crew members are dispatched in gruesomely entertaining fashion.
Also occupying the planet: none other than David, the synthetic from Prometheus, who tells the crew hes been here for the last  years.
Enter the Dueling Fassbenders.
David becomes a sort of mentor to Walter, even though Walter is the more advanced and sophisticated synthetic. Fassbenders work in these two roles is an understated wonder to behold' he creates two distinct characters that often interact with one another, and he manages to infuse each synthetic creation with unique personality traits.
That said, at least one bit of interaction between Walter and David is just goofy and unintentionally funny. And a big plot revelation deep into the story is one of the least surprising twists in recent film history.
Alien: Covenant includes a number of nods to the first two Alien movies, to the point where it sometimes plays like a Greatest Hits collection.
At least theyre covering a classic.
