President Lyndon Baines Johnson was bigger than life, brimming with contradictions, filled with passion yet not above petty politics.
Only a great actor should even attempt to portray such a complicated, historically significant figure  and after seeing HBOs All the Way, Im convinced few if any actors on the planet could match the singularly talented Bryan Cranstons portrayal of LBJ.
Director Jay Roach who helmed the Cranston-starring Trumbo, as well as the Austin Powers movies turnsRobert Schenkkans acclaimed Broadway play into an engrossing, powerful if slightly overcrowded movie that works as a biopic of LBJ and as a time capsule of a crucial period in the civil rights movement.
Cranstons performance in the stage version won the Tony for best actor. They might as well engrave the Emmy with his name right now.
'All the Way begins on one of the saddest moments in American history: the assassination of JFK in Dallas on Nov. , . On Air Force One on the flight back to Washington, now-president LBJ shares a quiet moment with his wife Lady Bird an almost unrecognizable and very strong Melissa Leo  but then complains to his wife about the way Jackie Kennedy was looking at him during the swearing-in on the plane.
Its a glimpse into the complex inner workings of LBJ. Although he and the Kennedy brothers were often mortal enemies, he felt genuine grief over the loss of a young president  but he still had room to nurse his wounded ego over the perceived resentment of a woman whose husband had just been murdered so close to her that her dress was spattered with his blood.
The first half of All the Way concentrates on Johnsons yeoman effort to pass a Civil Rights Act without permanently alienating Dixie Democrats and destroying his chances for election in .
Every time a new historical figure applauds an LBJ speech or enters the Oval Office or appears at a civil rights meeting, we get helpful graphics identifying some of the major players of the time, including:
Anthony Mackie as the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.
Frank Langella as Sen. Richard Russell, an old-school, anti-reform Southerner who was more of a father figure to LBJ than LBJs own father.
Steven Root as FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, who was obsessed with spying on King and revealing his extramarital affairs.
Bradley Whitford as Minnesotas Hubert H. Humphrey, a passionate advocate for civil rights who became LBJs vice-president and remained loyal to the president even when LBJ was roaring insults to his face.
Mackie doesnt try to impersonate King, but he does a fine job of capturing Kings struggle to navigate the political waters of Washington D.C. while growing increasingly frustrated with broken promises and stalled negotiations. Langella is the perfect choice to play the intimidating and stubborn Russell. Root is oily and effective as the creepy but inarguably influential J. Edgar Hoover.
Best of all the supporting work: Whitford as Humphrey. Whitford captures Humphreys look, mannerisms and catchy speech patterns  and more important, he shows us the mans integrity, his decency and his willingness to take LBJs crap if it means striking another blow against bigotry. Its a wonderfully realized performance.
The second half of All the Way isnt quite as effective as hour one, in part because Roach and Schenkkan are perhaps too ambitious in addressing touchstone moments in LBJs presidency, from the Gulf of Tonkin to a sex scandal involving one of his most loyal aides to the murders of three civil rights workers in Mississippi to the infamous and controversial anti-Goldwater daisy TV ad.
But even when All the Way takes a slight wrong turn or stalls a bit, it looks and feels authentic, from the use of newsreel footage  staunch segregationist George Wallace is not portrayed by an actor and appears only in black-and-white clips  to the sets, to the incredible makeup work that helps immeasurably in the process by which Bryan Cranston disappears and Lyndon Baines Johnson commands our attention.
