Well THAT was different.
For the first half of Allied, I was immersed in a taut, tense World War II thriller that played like a mash-up of Casablanca and Inglourious Basterds,' with Brad Pitts Canadian intelligence officer Max Vatan and Marion Cotillards French Resistance fighter Marianne Beausejour such names! teaming up for an elaborate undercover mission involving a staged marriage, hot-and-heavy sex in their car while a sandstorm whirled around them and a seriously badass takedown of a room filled with Nazis.
Next thing I knew, the staged marriage had become a real thing, and Maxs lesbian sister Bridget Lizzy Caplan was talking about how shes going to miss the war because during the war, anything goes sexually who knew?! and Marianne was giving birth in a London hospital during a bombing raid, and then Max and Marianne and their cherub were living a relatively idyllic life in London even though the war was still raging  and we havent even gotten to the picnic Max and Marianne hold on their front lawn, just yards away from a downed German bomber still smoldering and with dead German pilots still presumably inside the wreckage.
Oh wait, dont let me forget about the one-armed drunk who holds the key to a life-and-death mystery!
The highs are so impressive and the lows are so weird in Allied, I wouldnt be surprised if this is that rare film that lands on some critics Top  lists while others find a place for it in their rankings of the worst movies of the year.
Im gonna split it down the middle with a qualified recommendation. Directed by the innovative, sure-handed veteran Robert Zemeckis the Back to the Future movies, Forrest Gump, Castaway, The Polar Express and featuring two beautiful and quite talented actors hamming it up like nobodys business, Allied is reportedly inspired by the true story of a British spy ordered to kill his own wife when she is suspected of being a double agent  but it feels more like schmaltzy if entertaining pure fiction than anything resembling a fact-based World War II drama.
The -year-old Pitt, sporting longish hair hardly in keeping with early s military style, and with a distractingly unlined face  movie magic, or good genes?  that makes him look like hes in his mid-s, is Max, an intelligence officer who parachutes into the North African desert and is picked up by a driver who takes him to Casablanca. The timeline is maybe a year or so after the events of Casablanca. No word on whether Bogie is now running another version of Ricks Caf or perhaps an altogether new establishment.
On the way to Casablanca, Max opens his cool briefcase, which contains new IDs, cash, a change of clothes and guns. This is the kind of movie where Max shuffles through the IDs and flips the cash through his fingers and checks out the guns just for our benefit, so we know hes a super-spy kind of guy.
I loved the Casablanca scenes. Cotillard, looking like an old-school movie star, is a stunner as Marianne, who commands the room with her wit, her style and her ability to make everyone around her feel special. Marianne has managed to gain the trust of the highest-ranking German officers and their powerful sympathizers. The arrival of her Parisian husband is met with only slight skepticism.
Marianne schools Max on his French accent  she says he sounds like hes from Quebec, not Paris  and the manner in which a husband and wife would interact after not having seen each other for a very long time. She warns him against falling in love with her, as that could get them both killed.
So of course they proceed to fall in love.
The mission in Casablanca makes for half a good movie. Its when the story shifts to London, and the weird hybrid of domestic drama and wartime intrigue, that Allied sometimes stretches credulity and veers close to unintentional humor, e.g., an encounter in a veterans hospital between Max and an old buddy Matthew Goode who shields the nature of his injuries until he dramatically swivels his face to shock Max  and us  with his tragic disfigurement. Talk about over the top.
As played by Pitt, the supposedly lethal and revered intelligence officer Max is kinda dim at times, not to mention prone to little temper tantrums, e.g., kicking over a chair when he gets some bad news from a superior officer.
Cotillards Marianne is a woman of mystery. Is she really an agent of the French, or is it possible shes a German spy who has taken on the identity of a French woman and is so committed to Hitlers cause she would marry an Allied officer and GIVE BIRTH TO HIS CHILD, all in the name of intercepting top secret information?
More than a decade after Mr. and Mrs. Smith, Brad Pitt stars in another thriller about married assassins who just might have to kill one another. What are the odds?
Ill leave it to the relationship journalists to dissect how these two films wound up as professional bookends marking for the romantic union of Mr. Pitt and Ms. Jolie. We are here to talk about the movie, and the movie is entertaining, perhaps more so if youre at one of those establishments where they allow you to bring a generous pour of wine into the theater.
