Some movies practically dare you to give up.
Aloft is a beautifully shot, frustratingly vague and deeply ponderous mysteryspiritual journey about terminally unhappy souls.
And falcons.
The wonderful Jennifer Connelly is Nana, the mother of two boys: Gully Winta McGrath, who is very ill and needs a miracle to survive, and his older brother Ivan Zen McGrath, who resents all the attention Nana lavishes on Gully. Hes some brat, that Ivan.
On a typically wintry day, Nana brings her two boys and Ivans pet falcon to a faith-healing ceremony in the hopes a shaman known as The Architect William Shimell will be able to save her son. Theres an incident with the falcon, and this leads to Nana realizing SHE has magical faith-healing powers.
Next thing we know, Cillian Murphy is playing the adult Ivan, who now has a son of his own. So either the scenes with Ivan as a little boy were set about  years in the past, or the scenes with Ivan as an adult are  years in the future. Its hard to tell because theres not much in the way of fashion or cars or television shows to clarify the time periods. Whatever the era, theres almost never a moment in this movie when anyone dares to crack a smile.
The adult Ivan tends to falcons and is usually either brooding or unpleasant. Sometimes hes unpleasantly brooding. He is, however a loving and caring father' well give him that. Murphy conveys parental caring with lovely, subtle notes.
Turns out Ivan hasnt spoken to his mother in two decades. Nana flew the coop and became some sort of world-famous and yet reclusive faith healer, apparently more interested in helping strangers than in being a mother.
Melanie Laurent plays Jannia, a French documentarian who persuades Ivan to accompany her on a perilous trek to the far north, near the Arctic Circle, to find and interview Nana.
Writer-director Claudia Llosa continues to tell the parallel stories of Nanas quest to find a cure for her young son, and the adult Ivans quest to find his estranged mother and confront her, leaving great mysteries somewhere in the middle: Why exactly did Nana leave, and what exactly has she been doing all this time? How do her healing powers work? What kept her from seeing Ivan all these years?
Yes, we know Nanas become some sort of New Age, mystical Woman of the North  but most of the pressing questions set up in Aloft remain unanswered. As for young Ivan having a pet falcon and grown-up Ivan taking care of falcons, it just seems like an excuse for Llosa to focus on these magnificent creatures. It feels overly artsy and hardly integral. Look! Flying metaphors!
Connelly is a compelling actress playing an elusive character. It doesnt help that in the later scenes, her Look, shes much older! makeup is less than convincing. Murphy is stuck playing a deadly serious, mostly unlikable character. Laurent does a fine job as the journalist. The cinematography makes great use of the vast and icy Canadian locales.
All well and fine. Were still mired in an obtuse, jagged tale that remains vague and unfocused until the very end.
