The man has just received the worst possible news from his wife.
He leaves their apartment, his face hardened like a stone, betraying no sense of what hes feeling inside. As he begins to descend the staircase, he stops for a moment, his hand tightening around the handrail, before proceeding down the stairs and out the door. It is a quiet, heartbreaking moment. So much is conveyed with so little.
The man in question is Otto Qaungel, a German civilian living in Berlin during World War II. The actor playing Otto is Brendan Gleeson, the great Irish character actor who has lent his talents to Braveheart and A.I., to Gangs of New York and In Bruges, to a bunch of Harry Potter movies, to Cold Mountain, to Live by Night. Gleesons performance in Alone in Berlin ranks with some of the best work hes ever done.
The story comes from a novel that was inspired by true-life events. Otto and Anna Emma Thompson were among the majority of the German populace that never officially joined the Nazi party but toed the line, offering no resistance.
Otto and Anna go about their daily life  Otto works in a factory, Anna is a housewife and a member of the National Socialist Womens League  and try to keep their heads down, until the horrors of the war and of the Gestapo regime land right at their doorstep, and they can be silent no more.
One night, Anna finds Otto composing anti-Hitler notes. He is writing in a deliberately strange style so the notes cannot be traced to him. His plan is to post the notes around the city. Theres no turning back.
Dozens and then hundreds of the cards appear in Berlin, much to the frustration of the Gestapo. Otto and Anna know theyre most likely on a suicide mission, but they remain devoted to their cause.
Alone in Berlin is one of the hundreds of World War II films to tell us the story of individuals who performed heroics great and small. Its a sometimes tense but mostly quiet film, filmed in earth tones that evoke a sense of history, with the story elegantly nudged along by a beautiful and haunting score from tremendously talented Alexandre Desplat The Queen, The Grand Budapest Hotel, The Kings Speech, The Imitation Game.
Daniel Bruhl is sharp as the chief detective who pursues the case with zeal but is not in line with the Gestapos extreme tactics. Emma Thompson, who can play just about anything that comes her way, disappears into her role of Anna and wears every inch of Annas grief and resolve in her expressions.
And then theres Gleeson, who often plays rough, intimidating, red-faced characters. He loses the Irish brogue in favor of precise, German-accented English, and he dials down the performance to just the right scale. And when Alone in Berlin reaches the end of its journey, its the performances of Gleeson and Thompson that ensure well never forget the bravery of Otto and Anna.
