lint Eastwood knows what its like to tell a war story from two opposing sides.
In , Eastwood released two of the better World War II films in recent memory: Flags of Our Fathers and Letters from Iwo Jima. The first film told the story of the legendary battle from the perspective of the men who raised the flag on Iwo Jima' the latter told the same tale from the perspective of the Japanese soldiers.
No doubt someone could tell the story of American Sniper from the other side of the riflescope. Even before the release of this film, I was hearing from detractors complaining about what the movie wasnt, even as they freely admitted they hadnt even seen the movie.
A. Ripping a movie without seeing it is the debate equivalent of hitting yourself in the knee with a hammer.
B. American Sniper isnt some flag-waving political movie. Its a powerful, intense portrayal of a man who was hardly the blueprint candidate to become the most prolific sniper in American military history. And yet thats what happened.
Smack dab in the middle of one of those movie star runs when an actor can seem to do no wrong, Bradley Cooper put on  pounds, grew a full beard and disappeared into a Texas accent to portray Chris Kyle, the Navy SEAL who had some  confirmed kills in four tours of duty. In Kyles book, he told more than a few stories about his life after his four tours of duty that allegedly played fast and loose with others accounts. In one case, it wasnt just alleged. Jesse Ventura brought a lawsuit against Kyle for defamation and won his case. But American Sniper isnt about those controversies. Its a dramatic interpretation of Kyles tours of duty, and his struggles to become a good husband and father after all hed experienced.
Although Cooper succeeds in resembling and sounding like the real Kyle, this isnt some cheap impersonation trick. Cooper gives maybe the best performance of his career. In lesser hands, the character of Kyle could have come across as a cliche  some Merica-loving lout who celebrates every kill with beer showers and high-fives  but Cooper infuses him with humanity and dignity. And vulnerability.
True, Kyle never wavers in his belief hes saving American lives every time he takes out an enemy soldier  or a civilian who is likely wielding a grenade or a bomb.
But this man doesnt suffer from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. We see signs the disorder is kicking in while hes still in uniform.
Theres not a whole lot of Zero Dark Thirty strategy-room stuff in this film. This isnt a Big Picture look at things' its a close-up view of some fiery corners of an insane battle. Even when Eastwood is focusing on Kyles pursuit of two main targets  a former Olympic sharpshooter turned Iraqi insurgent sniper, and the heinous Butcher of Fallujah  what it comes down to is brutally simple: If the bad guys arent taken out, more American soldiers will die. And Kyle is obsessed with not letting that happen.
We get some effective and straightforward background scenes about Kyles background, which includes young Chris getting some tough-love lessons from his dad and the twentysomething Chris busting broncos and partying it up  and then he signs up with the Special Forces, about  years past the age of most hopefuls.
Sienna Miller plays Kyles wife Taya. They meet Top Gun-style in a bar, and every once in a while Taya comes across as the cliched military wife who tells her husband hes not home even when hes home, but Miller fights hard to make her character more than that, and she succeeds. A scene in which Taya is home in Texas pregnant, and Chris is on the phone from the middle of a battle, is heartwrenching.
is 
back home, we see familiar but moving sequences illustrating Kyles difficulties in adjusting to something resembling a tranquil, domestic life. Like so many soldiers who come back after experiencing things most civilians cant fathom, Chris finds it nearly impossible to tend to day-to-day life and responsibilities. Most of the people he encounters are at best vaguely aware of some kind of conflict somewhere over there that merits a fraction of the time the local news accords to the weather report.
The only thing worse than encountering ignorant bliss is hero worship. When a young veteran recognizes him in the most innocuous circumstances back in Texas and keeps insisting hes a hero, we can feel Kyles pain. This is the last thing he wants.
American Sniper is perhaps most effective in its closing sequences, when Kyle begins to find himself by reaching out to fellow veterans. For those who dont know what happened to the real-life Chris Kyle, Ill leave it to you to discover via the film. Suffice to say Eastwood handles that chapter with just the right touch that extends into the closing credits.
