You could make a deadly serious and blood-spattered film based on the story of Barry Seal. After all, the former TWA pilot turned CIA operative got tangled up with the likes of Pablo Escobar and Manuel Noriega as he transported guns and cocaine and even would-be rebel soldiers, not mention laundering millions of dollars in ill-gotten cash.
This is not that movie.
Doug Limans American Made is a fast-paced, breezy and mostly upbeat action-comedy-thriller that turns the likes of Escobar and Noriega into laugh-producing supporting players  and somehow manages to pull off that trick without offensively minimizing the evil ways of those legendarily ruthless drug kingpins.
Much of the credit goes to Tom Cruise, who gives one of his most energized and charming performances in years. American Made makes no bones about portraying Barry as a greedy thrill-seeker who rarely paused for even a moment to consider the hurtful and potentially tragic ripple effects caused by his actions  but Cruises charm, and his enormous reserves of charming antihero equity, keep us rooting for him to at least survive if not emerge victorious from his insanely reckless adventures.
Before Liman helmed big-budget actioners such as The Bourne Identity and the Cruise-starring Edge of Tomorrow, he established himself as a talented quick-cut stylist with the culture-shaping buddy comedy Swingers  and the underrated caper comedy Go . Even though American Made has the look of a film with a hefty budget and it features one of the worlds biggest movie stars, Limans style harkens back to those small gems from the late s.
Sure, we get some nifty, big-movie, CGI-augmented action sequences, most of them involving Barrys death-defying work in the cockpit as he routinely takes gunfire from hostile forces, dodges the DEA and even pulls off a crash-landing in a residential neighborhood. But American Made has refreshingly crude and funny graphics, and a small-movie vibe in that the most memorable scenes involve Barry in a room with a handful of other characters, usually finding himself neck-deep and sinking in an untenable situation.
When we meet Barry, its , and hes so bored with his work as a pilot running North American routes for TWA, hell deliberately do a quick deceleration and dive just to create turbulence and scare the life out of his passengers. This is also the first sign Barrys kind of a jerk.
Barrys been making a little cash on the side by illegally transporting Cuban cigars from Canada to the States. This attracts the attention of the CIA, which has created a profile on Barry and has identified him as a potential asset. Hes a top-level pilot, hes willing to bend the law  and he has a knack for leaping first without looking.
Domhnall Gleeson The Force Awakens is a quirky, off-beat scene stealer as Schafer, the CIA operative who recruits Barry and keeps upping the stakes, which results in Barry getting really rich and also so tangled up in shady business theres absolutely no way out.
Barrys mission is to take surveillance photos of Central American countries. This leads to Barry working as a courier for Panamas Manuel Noriega and a cocaine smuggler for Colombias Medellin Cartel. Hes dropping kilos of cocaine in the Louisiana swamps, delivering weapons to the U.S.-backed Contras in Nicaragua, and even transporting hundreds of young Nicaraguan men to rural Arkansas, I kid you not, so they could be trained to join the Contras fighting forces.
Its insanity  and though American Made plays quite loose with real-life events, its even more insane because most of the episodes fictionalized here DID take place in the s. In addition to the Central American villains, American historical figures ranging from Ronald Reagan to Col. Oliver North make pivotal cameos in the film. Theres even a brief exchange between Barry and an amiable fella who asks if Barry is a pilot and says he was a pilot too  with the National Guard. It takes a beat to realize thats George W. Bush, who has no business being in the movie other than its funny to have Barry cross paths with George W. Bush.
Sarah Wright matches up extremely well with Cruise as Barrys wife, Lucy, an all-American beauty and family-first mom with a truck drivers mouth  and the willingness to fully embrace Barrys criminal lifestyle from the moment he first literally tosses thick packs of cash in her general direction. The always first-rate Jesse Plemons the TV shows Friday Night Lights and Breaking Bad, movies such as Bridge of Spies has a handful of low-key and perfectly handled scenes as the local Arkansas sheriff who is content to shrug off Barrys highly suspicious activities until its impossible for him to ignore things any longer. Caleb Landry Jones is terrific as Lucys idiot brother JB, whose fate provides a huge laugh even as we know it probably wasnt very funny to JB.
Mostly, theres Cruise, who at  looks a decade and a half younger, and can still fill a cockpit with star power some  years after Top Gun.
