Ewan McGregor is a versatile and durable actor who has spent a lot of time on film sets, and someday he might become an accomplished filmmaker, but his feature directorial debut is one of the most unfortunate literary adaptations in recent memory.
McGregor directs and stars in the ponderous, stagey-looking, emotionally uninvolving, unpleasant and often shrill American Pastoral. Somewhere in the translation from book to film, we lose most of the memorably heartbreaking elegance and deep insight of Philip Roths Pulitzer Prize-winning Broken American Dream novel about a former high school golden boy whose seemingly sure path to an idyllic life is shredded by domestic strife and the social unrest of the s.
Nearly everything about American Pastoral is ill-conceived, including the miscasting of McGregor as Seymour Swede Levov, a Jewish former high school football hero in post-World War II New Jersey. As portrayed by McGregor, Swede is a sincere but often clueless dupe who seems to be the last person in his world to realize whats happening. Hes forever RAISING HIS VOICE in happiness, astonishment, bewilderment, anger or frustration.
When Swede is in his early s and America is basking in the unbridled optimism of the late s-early s, he appears to be on track for a life worth envying.
All the pieces are in place.
Swede marries a beautiful shiksa pageant queen aptly named Dawn Jennifer Connelly, who gives birth to their equally aptly named daughter, Merry. He takes over the day-to-day operation of his fathers successful glove factory in Newark. Peter Riegert gives the warmest and most believable performance in the film as Swedes father. And he sets up the family in a beautiful country home on a sprawling patch of land in Rimrock, New Jersey. Why, theres even room on the rolling farmland for a couple of cows who are treated like pets.
Swede and Dawn dote on the precocious Merry, a brilliant child who battles a severe stuttering problem. Hannah Nordberg plays the young Merry. Dakota Fanning plays her as a teenager and a woman in her s.
But Merry is an ultra-sensitive child who feels isolated from other children because of her stuttering, and deeply, personally wounded by the injustices of the world. By the time Merry turns , its the late s and she has become a full-fledged, self-appointed radical. The mere sight of LBJ on the family television is enough to send Merry into a raging, profanity-laced tirade  first directed at the president, and then at her parents, whom she has come to loathe for what she perceives as their oblivious, bourgeois values.
Merrys radicalism turns into full-fledged anarchy. Early one morning, a bomb goes off in the neighborhood post office, an innocent man is killed  and Merry is identified as the prime suspect. She goes missing before the authorities can close in.
American Pastoral segues into a Cliffs Notes version of the s, brimming with superficial caricatures and worn-to-the-bone cliches, including the use of Buffalo Springfields For What Its Worth  a great anthem for its time to be sure, but beyond tired as a storytelling device at this point.
Dawn tries to reinvent herself, complete with plastic surgery, while Swede becomes ever more obsessed with finding Merry. In one bizarre interlude, Swede is taunted, duped and nearly seduced by a radical leftist named Rita Valorie Curry, who claims to be a conduit to Merry. The Rita character is such an overwrought hippie-dippie stereotype, its as if she wandered into the movie from a community college production of Hair. No offense, community college productions of Hair.
American Pastoral opens with the -year-high school reunion of Roths famed alter ego Nathan Zuckerman David Strathairn, who was friends and classmates with Swedes younger brother Jerry Rupert Evans.
Swede, says Jerry, is dead. That cues the extended flashback and off we go to a time when the Swede was young and full of life, and the rest of the story progresses from there.
But we can't quite shake off the feeling were watching something thats D.O.A.
