At best I was buying about half of what American Assassin' was selling.
At. Best.
Michael Keaton as a battle-scarred, Cold War Secret Ops legend now living far off the grid in the obligatory remote cabin, where he trains a small band of elite young warriors for ultra-dangerous, top-secret overseas missions the USA will never even acknowledge? Sure. Im not sure who goes out and gets the groceries during the whole training period, but all right.
Sanaa Lathan as Keatons supervisor, a tough-as-nails commander who has a soft side for Keaton because her late father was once his partner? OK.
But then we start sliding down a slippery slope into all sorts of booby traps, including but not limited to:
 Unwise casting choices in two key roles.
 Increasingly ludicrous plot developments  even for a slick, escapist thriller.
 Dubious science about the potency of a nuclear warhead.
 Intellectually lazy pop psychology, much of it heavy on the daddy issues, as character motivation.
 An extended and nasty torture porn sequence in which the recipient apparently believes that on some level he deserves the brutal punishment inflicted on his person and he almost revels in it, e.g., after a fingernail is torn off, he grins maniacally like the Joker and screams, Ive got nine more!
Dylan OBrien from The Maze Runner and MTVs Teen Wolf series plays Mitch Rapp now theres an action novel series heros name right up there with JASON BOURNE or JACK REACHER, a slender, seemingly passive, amiable grad student on holiday at a beautiful tropical resort with his lovely and sweet girlfriend.
We witness Mitchs marriage proposal almost entirely through the lens of his phone. Come on Mitch, get in the moment and stop recording. Dont be such a millennial.
Suffice to say things go tragically wrong just moments later. Director Michael Cuesta stages the first of multiple extended, impressively choreographed and quite violent action sequences. Given the horrific and seemingly endless series of terrorist attacks around the world on innocent human beings in public places, it might not be everyones idea of entertainment to see a fictional terrorist attack carried out on the big screen with such undeniably shocking punch.
Cut to a year and a half later.
The nice young man has disappeared. Mitch has noticeably bulked up and has transformed himself into a formidable fighting machine, skilled in the martial arts, knife throwing and other forms of combat. Fast work! Hes also become a notorious hothead, getting kicked out of a dojo for ultra-violent, unacceptable fighting techniques and scaring the life out of responsible gun owners at a shooting range. Mitch has enough chips on his shoulder to fill a can of Pringles.
Mitchs apartment is a combination of gym and high-tech lair. Through brilliant cyber manipulations, he has managed to infiltrate the terrorist cell that ruined his life, to the point where the highest command believes his supposedly radical anti-American rants and is ready to bring him onboard.
Meanwhile, CIA Deputy Director Irene Kennedy Lathan and her team are keeping a close watch on Mitch, trying to determine whether hes become a homegrown terrorist or hes actually going into the belly of the beast to cut off the beasts head on what would surely be a suicide mission.
Irene eventually takes a crazy chance on Mitch and sends him to the aforementioned Cold War legend Stan Hurley Keaton for intense training. Hurley does everything he can to break the lad and send him home crying, but that darn Mitch wont give up.
With the world reeling from a series of terrorist attacks on military and civilian targets seemingly designed to start a nuclear war in the Middle East, Irene enlists Stan and a handful of Stans best recruits including Mitch to hunt down the operative masterminding the madness. They team up with a deadly, mysterious, possibly duplicitous and most definitely glamorous Turkish agent Shiva Negar, who of course has to pose as Mitchs lover at one point as part of the undercover operation.
Of all the insanely implausible developments in American Assassin  and there are many  some of the most outrageous involve that Turkish agent. Its as if she wandered into this putatively gritty thriller from one of the more cartoonish James Bond movies.
Then theres Ghost, once of the U.S. Navy and a former protg of Stans, now a rogue terrorist intent on creating a nuclear war, mostly because his feelings were really, REALLY bruised by father figure Stan back in the day. Hes become an unhinged madman who talks far too much and delights in torturing his nemesis again, the James Bond playbook instead of just shooting the guy in the head and continuing on with his evil mission.
Taylor Kitsch, a solid actor who has carved out a respectable feature career with supporting roles in films such as Savages and Lone Survivor and a stint on Season Two of True Detective following his breakout role on the TV series Friday Night Lights, plays Ghost.
Sorry, but no sale. I didnt buy Kitsch as a deranged psychopath willing to sacrifice thousands of lives and throw the world into chaos any more than I bought OBrien as the most lethal human weapon in the United States anti-terrorism arsenal. Sometimes acting comes across more like pretending.
