The Lost Boys and Lost Girls in Andrea Arnolds electric American Honey depend so much on music to set the mood for their day, this film is almost a musical even though its about as far from a traditional musical as a film can get.
 Lady Antebellums title track provides a road-trip moment reminiscent of the sing-along to Tiny Dancer in Cameron Crowes Almost Famous.
 A ragged-looking group of teenagers essentially takes over a Kmart in aggressive but non-violent fashion, dancing joyously to Rihannas We Found Love.
 Bruce Springsteens cover of Dream Baby Dream is referenced in two key moments in the film.
 Steve Earles thumping anthem Copperhead Road, Mazzy Stars tripped-out Fade Into You and even the Dead Kennedys' I Kill Children also make indelible marks.
The teens in American Honey feel like the spiritual offspring of the skateboarding, sexually voracious, hard-partying wanderers in Larry Clarks  indie teen shocker Kids.
But instead of the New York of Kids, were on the road in Middle America in American Honey, following a ragtag collection of runaways and misfits who have found an almost cult-ish bond working the road, selling magazine subscriptions.
Thats right, magazine subscriptions. For decades, adolescents and teens working as part of so-called mag crews have worked door to door in suburbs and small towns across the South and Midwest, selling magazine subscriptions and telling stories of how theyll be able to move up the company ladder, or fund a college scholarship, or otherwise better themselves, if only they can accumulate so many points and earn so many dollars. The companies behind these crews have attracted the attention of government agencies.
Writer-director Arnold taps into that world as the launching point for American Honey, a brilliant and startling slap to the senses. At times the symbolism grows repetitive, and the running time of  hours,  minutes admittedly tested my attention span on occasions  but this is an original, sometimes breathtaking depiction of a certain slice of American life.
Newcomer Sasha Lane is -year-old Star, whose days begin with dumpster diving and end with fending off the advances of her mothers creepy, abusive ex-boyfriend. Her mother, a meth addict, died some four years earlier. Given that bleak existence, little wonder Star jumps at the chance to join Shia LaBeoufs Jake and his band of misfit road warriors, who spend their nights partying and their days peddling those magazine subscriptions to anyone gullible enough to believe their fictional hard-luck stories.
At first it seems as if Jake is in charge of the crew, but hes really just the right-hand man to Riley Keoughs Krystal, who handles all the finances, sets up the trips, takes the lions share of the profits and decides who will stay with the group and who will be left on the side of the road in the middle of nowhere to fend for herself. Whereas LeBeouf tries WAY too hard with the crazy hairdo and the wacky wardrobe and the mini-Sean Penn attempts at rage and charisma, Keough is much more effective because she does so much with so much less. Her deadpan, dead-eyed line readings, especially when shes putting Star in her place, are chilling.
American Honey is filled with memorable set pieces, from the upper-middle-class Christian woman who invites Jake and Star into her home and berates them because they havent found God  even as her tween daughter and the daughters friends are twerking up a storm on the patio just behind her' to Stars strange encounter with three ish cowboys wearing white hats in a white Cadillac' to a scene where Star knocks on a door and meets a family clearly representing her own past.
This film is the real deal. It will bring you into a world that exists parallel to yours, right outside your car window as you run errands on Main Street.
