We begin with a man writhing in pain, on the ground in the vestibule of a New York City apartment building.
We circle back to the events of the last week leading to that moment.
Then were back at that apartment building entrance, with a full understanding of what has happened.
Unfortunately, were all too relieved to return to the scene of the crime, because it means this meandering and moribund multi-character journey is nearing its end.
Writer-director-actor Tim Blake Nelson is a smart, savvy, veteran filmmaking presence, and hes to be commended for shooting for the intellectual and philosophical stars in Anesthesia, but this ensemble piece plays like Crash in a minor note, with one heavy-handed scene after another, all leading up to an ambivalent, unsatisfying ending.
Sam Waterston does his reliable gruff-but-cuddly thing as Walter, a beloved philosophy professor retiring after some  years in the classroom. Glenn Close, nearly unrecognizable beneath oversized glasses and a colorful wool cap, has little more than an extended cameo as Walters devoted wife.
Walters son Adam Nelson is an uptight, humorless sort prone to bellowing Unbelievable! at the pot-smoking, curfew-bending behavior of his teenage children. Adams wife Jill Jessica Hecht, whos much more tolerant of their childrens behavior, has just learned she might have cancer.
Meanwhile, Gretchen Mols Sarah is an alcoholic who nags her two young daughters and gets into screaming matches with other mothers. Sarahs husband Sam Corey Stoll is always traveling and, oh yeah, hes having an affair.
But wait, the fun doesnt stop there. One of Walters favorite students, Sophie Kristen Stewart, clinically depressed and prone to rage, has taken to cutting herself just to feel something. And then theres Joe K. Todd Freeman, a once-promising writer whos now addicted to heroin.
To quote an observation the professor makes at one point: Any way you look at it, grim stuff.
Nearly all the characters are connected through blood, marriage, work or happenstance. As the title indicates, Anesthesia explores the various methods employed by emotionally broken and spiritually bruised humans to get through the next day, whether its drinking or drugs or self-mutilation or withdrawing from responsibility or lunging into an illicit affair.
Professor Brown is such a popular figure among his students that even some former protgs of his show up for his final lecture. He delivers a beautiful, impassioned speech about  well, about the meaning of life, pretty much, and while it sounds lovely and it overflows with verbal flourishes, like Anesthesia itself, it is a grand gesture going nowhere.
