Now were talking.
Edgar Wrights Baby Driver is one of the most entertaining thrill rides of this year, this decade.
This century.
Its wall-to-wall pure pop heaven, crackling with originality and dark humor, teeming with action sequences so perfectly timed and executed you almost want to run out of the theater on the spot so you can call a friend and rave about it  but you wouldnt dare leave your seat because you wouldnt want to miss a frame of this brilliant, pulse-quickening gem.
 century urban Western. Its Pulp Fiction meets La La Land, and why shouldnt those two meet? Wright is also clearly a fan of the films of Walter Hill  the veteran director even has a cameo in this film  and I wouldnt be surprised if he really dug Nicolas Winding Refns Drive as well.
The appropriately baby-faced Ansel Elgort delivers a charming and cocky and infectious and borderline irritating performance as Baby, who is charming and cocky and infectious and, yes, borderline irritating.
Baby is a savant behind the wheel who doesnt talk much, rarely goes without shades and is always, always wearing ear buds and grooving to his iPod tunes, the better to drown out the constant ringing in his ears from tinnitus thats plagued him since a tragic car accident when he was just a boy.
We meet Baby as hes parked outside a downtown bank in a bright red, tricked-out Subaru. He fidgets with his iPod and clicks on Bellbottoms by the Jon Spencer Blues Explosion.
A moment later, three armed robbers come flying out of the bank and dive into Babys car. Baby cranks up the volume, races the engine, shifts gears  and off we go on one of the most creative and exhilarating car chases youll ever see.
At the obligatory rendezvous in a remote warehouse, we get to know the team of hardened criminals that pulled off the heist. Theres the tattooed and menacing Griff Jon Bernthal' the weirdly coiffed and dangerous but outwardly amiable Buddy Jon Hamm, and Buddys tough and gorgeous and wisecracking wife Darling Eiza Gonzalez.
Oh, and a perfectly deadpan Kevin Spacey is Doc, the big boss and mastermind who plans the heists and hires various gun-persons for each job  the only constant being Baby behind the wheel, because Baby never gets caught and Baby has become Docs good-luck charm. Also, Baby owes Doc and doesnt have a choice. Well leave it at that.
Writer-director Wright serves up familiar, almost corny tropes that might have us rolling our eyes if we didnt feel we were in on the references. Lily James is the sweet-faced Debora, a dreamy waitress who talks and moves as if shes in a s B-romance. CJ Jones is Babys foster father, Joseph, who is deaf and mute and in a wheelchair. Jamie Foxx is sensational as Bats, the obligatory bloodthirsty maniac whos so psycho he even freaks out semi-psycho fellow criminals.
We even get the old One last job and then Im out! plot development.
Yet nothing about Baby Driver feels like a retread. The dialogue pops and crackles with sharp one-liners, the chase sequences are gritty and exuberant and fueled by the eclectic pop soundtrack, the editing is tight and timely and the performances are spectacular.
At one point during a shootout sequence, each blast of gunfire is in sync with the rhythm section of the pop song on the soundtrack. Its goofy and precise and really, really cool.
Baby Driver is rich with intriguing characters. Id love to see an entire movie about Hamms Buddy and Gonzalez Darling, and how they got to where they are. In a tense diner scene, the seemingly unhinged Bats speculates about their back story, drilling deeper and deeper, and seems to be hitting some pretty serious nerves, judging by their expressions.
And whats the deal with Spaceys Doc? He knows all and sees all, and hes capable of cold and calculating retribution if someone crosses him  and yet he has an almost fatherly affection for Baby. Where did THIS guy come from?
In sepia-toned flashbacks, we learn about Babys beloved mother  a singer with the voice of an angel  and his monstrous father. In brief fantasy sequences, Debora appears as a black-and-white vision. Like Babys mother, she is pure and lovely and she represents all that is good and innocent and wonderful about life.
As opposed to the maniacs with guns who want Baby dead after Baby makes some, shall we say, questionable decisions.
And all the while, we hear the soundtrack feeding Babys every move and reflecting Babys every mood  literally dozens of songs, from Tequila by the Champs to Brighton Rock by Queen to Nowhere to Run by Martha Reeves amp' the Vandellas to Radar Love by Golden Earring to Hocus Pocus by Focus, arguably the most ridiculous and undeniably catchy gimmick tune of the s.
It all works. All of it. The music, the performances, the twists and turns in the plot, the sheer energy and life force of the movie.
If you see this movie and tell me you didnt have a great time, were going to have to sit down and talk about your idea of a great time.
