I thought we were lifeguards.  Everything you guys are talking about sounds like a really entertaining but far-fetched TV show.  Zac Efrons Matt Brody in Baywatch.
nbsp'
Just because you acknowledge youre in a movie based on a kitschy TV show doesnt necessarily mean youre in a GOOD movie based on a TV show.
The movie version of Baywatch makes a number of references to the globally popular, brain-cell-destroying kitsch hit TV show from the s.
We get scenes featuring sexy women moving in slow motion  with other characters commenting about how those sexy women appear to be moving in slow motion. We get the obligatory cameo appearances from original Baywatch stars David Hasselhoff and Pamela Anderson, with one of those appearances producing a mild chuckle and the other going absolutely nowhere.
And we get plot developments even more over the top and ludicrous than the ding-dong-dumb storylines from the cheesy TV show.
What we dont get is a movie with an identity.
Baywatch earns its R rating with hardcore language and gross-out scenes  some involving corpses, some involving male crotch humor, and one that manages to involve a corpse AND male crotch humor. Most of the time the cast is going for big, broad laughs, but the bloated two-hour running time also affords plenty of room for B-movie plot about a stereotypically nasty b-word bombshell who casually orders murders and ruthlessly pursues her goal of becoming the dominant dealer of a meth-like drug up and down the beach.
Good times.
Baywatch the movie stars Dwayne No Longer the Rock Johnson as legendary head lifeguard Mitch Buchannon and Zac Efron as the cocky and reckless trainee Matt Brody.
The enormously muscular Johnson and the super-shredded Efron spend most of the movie shirtless. Alexandra Daddarios Summer Quinn, Ilfenesh Haderas Stephanie Holden and Kelly Rohrbachs CJ Parker keep their tops on, but theyre squeezed into swimsuits and tight-fitting club outfits throughout the story. I mention all of this in the interest of accurate journalism.
Mitch isnt just some fortysomething guy in a wooden tower, twirling his whistle and keeping an eye on the tides. In fact hes more of a superhero than a mere lifeguard. Hardly a day goes by without Mitch performing amazing feats, from saving a woman and her two children from drowning to boarding a boat thats engulfed in flames and dragging multiple hot women to safety. In fact were told he has saved more than  lives on his beach.
Five hundred! Apparently that beach is more dangerous than many a war zone.
Efrons Matt is a two-time Gold Medal winner who fell from grace after a night of partying led to him throwing up in the pool during an Olympic relay race, costing his teammates their shot at gold and turning Matt into The Vomit Comet.
Matt is vain, reckless, cocky, selfish and quite dim. He signs on as a lifeguard trainee as a condition of his parole and announces he has no interest in being a team player and he doesnt want Mitch to mentor him.
Gee, can you guess what happens?
Priyanka Chopra is wasted as the cartoon-like villain Victoria Leeds, who runs a swanky nightclub and is buying up all the properties along the beach, the better to accept the regular shipments of drugs arriving via boat. Victoria specializes in berating her henchmen, laughing cartoonishly at Mitchs efforts to play policeman, and wobbling about on her high heels as she tries to execute one of the most tedious and ridiculous escape plans in recent memory.
Johnson and Efron are as likable as ever, but theyve played better-developed characters on Saturday Night Live.
CHIPS and The Dukes of Hazzard and The Beverly Hillbillies and Car , Where Are You? and Ill just stop there, when you make films from junk TV, more often than not youre going to wind up with a junk movie.
Lemons dont make for lemonade. They make for Rotten Tomatoes.
