 century.
Except it wasnt actually a film, due to the distribution method. Its what they sometimes call a limited TV series.
True Detective was released as an eight-part HBO series and not an epic movie in one or two parts  but taken as separate episodes or a complete arc, Fukunagas haunting, confounding, dark and beautiful work was the equal of just about everything great we saw on the big screen last year.
Now comes Beasts of No Nation. One day that title will become a trivia question as the first theatrical release under the increasingly powerful Netflix banner a streaming release of the movie coincides with a limited run in select theaters, but the real legacy of this film should be its merits as a visceral gut-punch about the never-ending insanity of war, and how a call to arms can transform a child from a relatively innocent boy to a ruthless killer.
Based on the acclaimed  novel of the same name by Uzodinma Iweala, Beasts of No Nation is set in an unnamed African country where internal violence is a part of the daily fabric. But there are still a few pockets of safety where children can be children, at least for a while longer.
When we meet young Agu Abraham Attah, a boy of about  or , he and his friends are trying to extract some loose change from soldiers by hawking Imagination Television, i.e., a hollowed-out old TV with Agus friends on the other side of the TV, acting out soap operas and action flicks. Its a neatly framed, funny sequence.
Thats about the last time Beasts of No Nation is played for amusement.
After Agus father and brother are killed by government troops, Agu becomes the protg of a charismatic, ambitious, temperamental and brutal rebel leader known as The Commandant. The Commandant is played by Idris Elba, and what a fitting name for his character, as Elba commands the screen  TV or film  with as much force and presence as just about any actor in the world today.
The Commandants training techniques are effective  and horrific. He indoctrinates non-soldiers, many of them mere boys, with frightening efficiency, acting as equal part father figure, last best hope and intimidator. At one point Agu is handed a machete, and the Commandant points out the exact spot on a mans skull that Agu should target before ending the mans life.
Even though the man appears to be guilty of nothing.
Elba is such a magnetic actor and the Commandant such a fascinating and complex character, we keep waiting for the focus to shift to the Commandants arc  but this is Agus story from start to finish.
At the outset of the film, Agu tells us what hes experiencing via the device of a dialogue with God. As blood flows and the world explodes and madness prevails, Agu tells us hes no longer speaking with God because hes sure God is not listening.
Fukunaga is a dazzling stylist, and at times the shifting palettes of the cinematography and the brilliant camera moves hes also the DP on this film are so impressive as to be marginally distracting. This was the case with True Detective as well, but Id much prefer watching the work of an immensely talented director who only occasionally goes overboard with the visual pyrotechnics as opposed to another prosaic, paint-by-numbers effort.
Theres a certain irony to this being a Netflix movie, because it is NOT the kind of film you should be watching on your iPad. If you have Netflix and youre going to stream this film, hopefully you have the means to watch it on a larger monitor.
Young Abraham Attah was a vendor on the streets of Ghana when Fukunaga found him, tested him with other unknowns and eventually cast the boy. Fukunaga also cast non-actors in his feature debut about Central American gangs, Sin Nombre. Its a remarkable performance by Attah, who holds our attention, even when hes sharing the screen with the great Elba.
