We live in an age in which real life routinely trumps or should I say Trumps comedy.
Beatriz at Dinner is a well-written and well-acted social satire pitting a Trumpian billionaire against a socially conscious, spiritually enlightened Mexican immigrant.
Gee, can you pick out the current-day parallels? Can you guess whos the villain and whos the hero?
If your default cable news channel is MSNBC, odds are youre going to love this movie. If you wake up with Fox and Friends and wind down your night with Sean Hannity and Tucker Carlson  not so much.
Directed by Miguel Arteta from a sharp and often funny screenplay by the immensely talented Mike White who teamed with Arteta on Chuck and Buck and The Good Girl, Beatriz at Dinner is entertaining enough as farce  but over the course of a feature-length film, the characters actually become more one-dimensional and less believable.
Salma Hayek plays the title character, a holistic massage therapistcounselorNew Age philosopher who mourns the sudden death of a pet goat with as much heartache as shed feel for the loss of a loved one.
Beatriz knows all living creatures are connected. Beatriz believes in reincarnation. Beatriz works at an alternative clinic with terminally and seriously ill cancer patients, using all of her powers of intuition and wisdom and massage to lift their spirits and ease their pain.
Connie Brittons Kathy, who lives on a sprawling beachfront estate with her husband Grant David Warshofsky, adores Beatriz. Loves Beatriz. Considers Beatriz a friend.
Not because Beatriz gives Kathy the best massages ever  although she does  but because Beatriz was there every step of the way when Kathy and Grants teenage daughter battled cancer. Via some casually condescending lines from Kathy and glimpses of photos, its clear the daughter, now fully recovered and at college, is embracing an identity not in keeping with her parents old school values.
One evening, Beatriz pays a house call to Kathys estate to give her a massage, parking her beat-up VW in the circular driveway. When the car wont start and Beatrizs ride falls through, Kathy arranges for an Uber for Beatriz and a towing service for the VW, and Beatriz goes home, and thats that.
KIDDING. That would be the logical solution, but that wouldnt give us a movie, would it?
Kathys condescending, liberal-guilt, youre family attitude about Beatriz leads her to invite Beatriz to stay for dinner. Not just any dinner, but an intimate, crucially important business gathering, with just four other guests: the powerful, famous and ruthless land baron Doug Strutt John Lithgow and his third wife, Jeana Amy Landecker, and the soulless young attorney Alex Jay Duplass and his socially climbing wife Shannon Chloe Sevigny.
As the group gathers for cocktails and talks about an impending real estate deal sure to make millions upon millions for everyone, Beatriz is mistaken for the help, ignored by the gossipy housewives and objectified by the men.
Once theyre finally seated for dinner, Lithgows Strutt insults immigrants, laughs off environmental objections to his projects and proudly displays photos of the big game hes killed on safari in Africa.
Of course Beatriz is horrified by this monster and she takes him to task  but with Beatriz getting increasingly drunk which leads to a drop in the effectiveness of her arguments, and Strutt so cartoonishly over the top even for a Trump doppelganger, their confrontations near the end of the film arent as juicy and as satisfying and as interesting as wed like.
And the last  minutes are even more problematic, for two reasons I wont divulge so as not to give away anything.
Suffice to say the menu for Beatriz at Dinner is more appetizer than main course.
