Here is an amnesiac movie thats Memento with a lobotomy,  First Dates without the breezy good cheer and The Vow without Rachel McAdams dimples and Channing Tatums pecs.
Well. The Vow was pretty terrible. But on some level Before I Go to Sleep is even more disastrous, given the pedigrees involved. This is one of the most terrible movies starring two Academy Award winners in recent memory.
Director Rowan Joffe turns S.J. Watsons bestselling novel into a cheap trick of a movie. I have no idea if the novel is any less ludicrous. Sometimes you see a film and youre compelled to read the book on which its based. In this case, the movie made me really, really NOT want to read the book. Ever.
Nicole Kidman, who spends much of the movie crying or on the verge of crying, is Christine, who wakes up every morning in a state of What the what? She doesnt know where she is, she doesnt recognize the man sleeping contentedly next to her  and she doesnt even know her own name. Shes an amnesiac.
Post-It notes on the bedroom furniture and a collage of photos on the wall serve as building blocks to help Christine piece together fragments of her shattered memory. And then theres her husband Ben Colin Firth, who every morning calmly tells her shes  years old, theyve been married for  years, she lost her memory in a terrible accident many years ago  and whatever experiences shell have over the course of the day, she will have forgotten everything when she wakes up the next morning.
OK then. Whats for breakfast?
Youd think that information would make Christine an insomniac as well as an amnesiac. But she drifts to sleep every night, even though her last thoughts before fading into dreamland must be pretty terrifying.
From the get-go its pretty clear something isnt right, and Before I Go To Sleep hammers that home with an overwrought score, and a number of false-scare moments straight out of a B-grade horror film. Were jolted by SUDDEN LOUD SOUNDS when a truck nearly hits Christine, when a plane roars overhead, etc.
Theres no filmmaking tactic lazier than the SUDDEN LOUD SOUND to give us a fright.
Mark Strong is the mysterious Dr. Nasch, a neuropsychologist treating Christine on the sly. This Dr. Nasch is some guy. With his unshaven look, his ominous way of speaking and his penchant for counseling Christine in parking garages and in remote locales, hes like a villain in a Liam Neeson movie.
Christine isnt sure whether she can trust Ben, Dr. Nasch or her former best friend Claire, who supposedly moved to Canada or someplace as Ben puts it. She begins to piece together fragments from the past, but can she trust her memory? Who ARE these people and why does it appear as if they all might be lying to her?
Nearly every plot twist is executed in clumsy fashion, whether its a sudden reveal of one characters first name, a dream sequence or Christine finding a clue from her past.
In the meantime, I wondered: Doesnt Christine have any family? Each day when she wakes up and Ben tells her the story of their lives, why doesnt she ask if her parents are alive or if she has any siblings?
Every day after Ben explains to Christine who she is and what her deal is, he zips off to his job as the head of the chemistry department at a nearby school. I dont think Ben even comes home for lunch. He just leaves her there to wander about the house. Although to be fair, Ben DOES let Christine know shes allergic to strawberries and cashews.
Also, and this is a SPOILER ALERT special, at one point Christine comes to believe she had a son. She examines her body and notices stretch marks. Why didnt she notice this on any of the previous thousands of days? A decade after she lost her memory, shes just now noticing stretch marks on her body?
After careening over numerous plot potholes, Before I Go To Sleep goes from failed attempt at Hitchcockian thriller to a gruesomely violent showdown in a hotel room, with the obligatory character-desperately-reaching-for-a-shard-of-glass moment weve seen in a dozen other films. This is followed by one of the more preposterous epilogues of the decade.
We should sympathize with Christine, and Kidman goes all-out in a role that requires a myriad of emotions, but shes one of those movie amnesiacs who keeps remembering things and then acts like an idiot with the new information she has.
Firth is a great actor, but hes playing a man whos either the most understanding husband in the world or something sinister, and yet the performance doesnt leave much room for guessing.
This is one of the worst movies of the year.
