What if I told you theres a movie starring Samuel L. Jackson as the president of the United States, who ejects from Air Force One moments before the plane is shot down, winds up in the unforgiving forests of Finland and teams up with a -year-old, bow-and-arrow wielding boy to fend off a psychopathic terrorist who wants to hunt down POTUS, kill him, mount him and stuff him as a trophy?
How about that!
Big Game is the most fantastically ridiculous action movie of . It reminded me of great cheesy stupid thrillers of the s such as Cliffhanger and Air Force One, only it takes itself far less seriously.
This is a movie populated by talented veterans who manage to maintain straight faces while reciting ludicrously clichd lines. One imagines much of the cast and crew practically holding their breaths until a scene is over, and then bursting into laughter before moving on to the next take.
Are you ready? Jackson plays President William Alan Moore, deep into his second term as a lame-duck president whose approval ratings are in the tank. Seems as if President Moores only friend in the world is his Secret Service Agent Morris Ray Stevenson, whos still on the job even though the remnants of the bullet he took for the president are millimeters from his heart.
Air Force One is on its way to a summit in Helsinki when missiles are detected, and theyre heading right this way! Somehow the planes defense system has been disabled, so the Secret Service rushes POTUS into a one-man escape hatch. President Moore ejects to safety mere seconds before missiles strike Air Force One and its accompanying fighter jets.
 birthday in a rite of passage in whichOskari must hunt down a bear or some other big game in order to be accepted into his fathers legendary band of crusty Finnish hunters.
And you thought studying for the Bar Mitzvah was a lot for a -year-old to undertake.
Also in the forest: Secret Service Agent Morris, who parachuted to safety, and the terrorist group that shot down Air Force One and is now in pursuit of the ultimate Big Game: the leader of the free world. Mehmet Kurtulus hams it up as Hazar, the aforementioned psycho who really does intend to stuff and mount POTUS as a trophy. Youre insane! says one character after learning of Hazars plan. Ya think?
Meanwhile, back in Washington, D.C., some of our most reliable actors have gathered together to pay homage to every political thriller with a war room theme. Victor Garber is the grim-faced vice-president' Ted Levine is the much-decorated but overwhelmed Gen. Underwood' Felicity Huffman is the director of the CIA, and Jim Broadbent is the brilliant anti-terrorist expert Herbert.
We know Herberts a colorful genius because he dresses like a professor, casually munches on a sandwich during the crisis and treats everyone else in the room like an idiot. Although Herberts strategy isnt exactly next-level thinking. Find the President, kill the sons of bitches who are after him and bring him back, he advises. Gee, thanks Herb.
Writer-director Jalmari Helander, whose previous work includes the wonderfully twisted holiday horror fantasy film Rare Exports: A Christmas Tale, fills Big Game with wildly implausible twists and turns made even more insane by the grade B special effects. Terrific character actors such as Stevenson and Broadbent chew up the scenery, while Jackson spends most of the movie as a punching bag before finally grabbing hold of his fate and uttering the obscenity hes hurled in a dozen other movies.
Big Game never once feels credible, and thats why its so entertaining. Almost nothing that takes place in this movie could occur in the real world, and theres something comforting about that.
