Lets do something reviews almost never do. Lets start by talking about the writers.
Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski have teamed up for Ed Wood, The People vs. Larry Flynt and Man on the Moon the Andy Kaufman biopic. If theres a movie to be made about an oddball corner of the entertainment world, theyre your guys.
With Big Eyes, Alexander and Karaszewski have once again penned a richly entertaining screenplay brimming with sharp dialogue and memorable characters. And as was the case with Ed Wood, director Tim Burton takes a kitschy slice of th century pop culture and turns it into a special film.
This is the kind of movie that has you smiling nearly all the way throughout at the sheer inspired madness of it all. Nearly all the way. Theres one scene in particular thats serious and heavy and terrifying, and Burton treats it with the proper respect.
 Amy Adams strikes just the right notes as Margaret Keane, who maintains a sunny faade even when shes leaving her first husband in the mid-s, when divorce was anything but commonplace' struggling to raise a daughter on her own  and later, when shes a co-conspirator in one the longest and weirdest con jobs in the history of modern art.
Margaret created the unforgettable and some might say horrendous Big Eyes paintings that captivated the world and earned millions. Most of the paintings are of waifs staring forlornly straight ahead with saucer eyes the size of baseballs. If I had one hanging on my bedroom wall, Id never be able to go to sleep. Ever.
But heres the thing. It was Margarets second husband, the conniving slickster Walter Keane a brilliant Christoph Waltz, who took credit for paintings the first time they were shown in public. And once the lie was created, it couldnt be undone.
Burton fills the screen with colorful, vibrant tableaus of the San Francisco scene of the s. Danny Huston is a hoot as Dick Nolan, a powerful gossip columnist who takes a liking to Walter, makes him a local celebrity and even helps Walter gain entre into the celebrity universe. If a big star is coming to town, Dick will tip off Walter in advance, so Walter can show up at just the right moment, bearing one of his paintings as a gift.
As Walter puts it, he was Warhol before Warhol was Warhol. He mass-produces posters and postcards, aggressively marketing his work AND his larger-than-life personality. Meanwhile, Margaret becomes a near recluse, painting in a secret studio in their lavish home while Walter soaks up the spotlight and dreams up new schemes. Her only friend Dee-Ann Krysten Ritter is banned from the Keanes home. Margaret and her daughter Jane Madeleine Arthur cling to each other as Walter becomes increasingly volatile. Finally Margaret cant take it  and she comes out publicly, eventually taking Walter to court to prove she was the real artist.
Terrence Stamp is perfectly cast as the New York Times art critic who is appalled by what he calls synthetic hack work, regardless of whos painting it. Waltz plays Walter as a man who is always in a state of con  to the point where he believes at least half his own lies. Adams gives a wonderfully nuanced performance as Margaret, who was such a dichotomous personality: so meek as to allow Walter to push her around for years, yet strong enough to have left that first marriage, to finally leave Walter  and to proclaim to the world that those famous paintings were hers.
Not to mention having the inspiration to create the works in the first place. Theyre not for everyone, but they struck a chord with millions.
As eccentric as his subjects are, Burton plays things relatively straightforward. This is one of the most mainstream movies hes ever done. Its also one of the more entertaining movies of the year.
