As I was rendering my verdict on the psychological thriller Black Butterfly, somehow David Spades infamous line about Eddie Murphy came to mind.
The background: After SNL alum and megastar Eddie Murphy headlined back-to-back flops, young Master Spades snarky and quite funny Hollywood Minute included a moment in which Murphys headshot appeared behind Spade, and Spade said:
Look children, its a falling star. Make a wish!
Murphy didnt talk to Spade for the better part of two decades. But if I didnt subtract a star from my review of Black Butterfly due to a very, VERY late development, I wouldnt blame you if you didnt talk to ME for the next  years.
Ninety-nine percent of the way through Black Butterfly and thats no exaggeration, I was committed to giving the film a solid three-star recommendation.
All they had to do was fade to black and roll credits, and I was all set to tell you about this nifty little chiller with a Misery vibe and a delicious twist I didnt see coming.
Alas, Black Butterfly didnt have the good grace to exit on the right note. The twist on top of the twist was so amateurish, so hacky, so insulting to the viewer, Im already thinking about apologizing to you guys for just the one-star demerit. The only reason Im giving this film even two stars is to pay tribute to the performances and to a screenplay that was pretty dang great but ran about a page and a half too long.
Heres the deal. Antonio Banderas plays Paul, a reclusive, downtrodden and alcoholic writer who has been living in near-squalor in his mountain retreat home ever since the mysterious disappearance and apparent murder of his wife  the first of a series of unsolved killings in the community.
Paul was once considered a hot property in literary circles and in Hollywood, but he hasnt produced anything of value in years. The page on his old-fashioned typewriter contains a single phrase repeated again and again, Shining style. It reads: I am stuck, I am stuck, I am stuck 
On one of Pauls rare forays into town, hes nearly run off the road by an aggressive truck driver. The truck driver then confronts Paul at the local diner  but a drifter Jonathan Rhys Meyers who happens to be at the diner intervenes, dragging the truck driver out of the diner and sending him on his way.
Moments later, a grateful Paul picks up the hitchhiking drifter, and offers him a roof and a meal for the night.
The drifter introduces himself as Jack and tells Paul hes an ex-con, recently released from prison. Paul doesnt have a problem with that, which is our first indication something isnt quite right here. Somebodys playing somebody.
Jack inserts himself into Pauls life and initiates a tough-love program designed to demolish Pauls writers block and wean Paul from the booze. At first it seems as if Jack has Pauls best interests at heart  but guns surface and doors are locked and threats are made, and we have a hostage situation.
A friendly real estate agent Piper Perabo trying to sell Pauls house shows up at his doorstep at the wrong moment and is dragged into the drama. When a cop knocks on the door to ask if Paul has seen a woman who has just gone missing, things go from bad to worse.
Then comes the aforementioned twist, which is outlandish but holds up fairly well under flashback scrutiny.
Three stars! Well played!
But wait, theres one more scene.
Look children  its a falling star.
