Kevin Costner is one of the finest un-flashy actors of our time.
Costner rarely strives for the operatic, over-the-top moves of a Johnny Depp or a Sean Penn, but hes as comfortable and as natural as it gets on the big screen. Pretty much past the days of playing rakish rebels and dashing leading men, Costner  who just turned   is still one of those actors whose mere attachment to a film gives it a certain cachet.
In writer-director Mike Binders uneven but provocative Black or White, Costner plays a grandfather for the first time in his career.
A grandfather grieving for his longtime wife, who was killed in a car accident.
A grandfather who has suddenly become a single parent to a biracial little girl.
A grandfather who uses the n-word when berating the father of that little girl.
A grandfather with a serious drinking problem.
Its one of the most complex characters Costner has played, and he delivers an intense, strong, darkly funny and moving performance in a movie that dares to raise issues and address situations that still make a lot of people uncomfortable.
Costners Elliott Anderson and his wife played by Jennifer Ehle in flashback and dreamlike sequences have raised their -year-old granddaughter Eloise Jillian Estell in one of the more charming kid-actor performances in memory since the girlwas born.
Related: Kevin Costner hopes 'Black or White' changes some minds
Why did the grandparents have Eloise? SPOILER ALERT. Their estranged teenage daughter died giving birth to Eloise. And Eloises father, a half-dozen years older than their daughter, was a crack addict and small-time crook who couldnt take care of himself, let alone a baby.
And thats just the beginning of the melodrama.
Its clear Elliott loves his granddaughter, but it was her grandma who handled the all the details like combing Eloises hair and making her breakfast and getting her to school. Eloise patiently walks her grandfather through the paces  no small feat given Elliott could be three-plus sheets to the wind at any given time.
Elliotts drinking escalates to the point where Eloises well-being could be an issue. Enter Eloises fraternal grandmother, Rowena Octavia Spender, a life force who runs a number of small businesses out of her home and is taking care of an extended family of relatives. Now that Eloises maternal grandmother is gone and its just the irascible, hard-drinking Elliott looking after Eloise, Rowena turns to her brother Jeremiah Anthony Mackie, a hotshot attorney, to sue for custody of Eloise.
He has a problem with black people, says Jeremiah in Rowenas first meeting with the legal team.
Rowena flinches. She says she never made such a claim.
He has a problem with black people, repeats Jeremiah, making it clear that if theyre to win this case, theyre going to have to play that card.
Elliotts team will be equally aggressive in going after Eloises father, Reggie Andre Holland, who is back on the scene, claiming hes clean and sober and expressing the desire to connect with his daughter for the first time. 
Things arent going to get ugly. Theyre going to start ugly.
Binder who teamed up with Costner in The Upside of Anger, one of the better films of  based Black or White in part on some of his own family experiences. Binder doesnt shy away from some difficult issues and a few blunt moments that will make you wince, e.g., when Elliott refers to Reggie as a street n'', or when the fiercely protective Rowena finally faces the truth about one of her own family members and unleashes the full extent of her fury.
The custody hearing, at times about as realistic as one of those afternoon-judge TV shows, does have some powerful moments, as when Elliott gives a speech in which he thinks hes making some great points but is actually doing nearly as much harm to himself as Jack Nicholsons character did to his own case in A Few Good Men. At times the proceedings take great leaps of poetic license, with the judge constantly warning Rowena to sit down and be quiet but never doing anything about her outbursts.
Costners performance is filled with memorable moments, from his pitch-perfect reaction to his wifes death, to his earnest attempts to get more involved with Eloises day-to-day activities, to the stupid choices he makes after hes had too much to drink. Octavia Spencer owns every scene shes in. Mackie does fine work playing the straight man to Costner and to Spencer.
Even with a somewhat disappointing climactic confrontation that leads to a predictable resolution, Black or White is a timely reminder of how none of us is really color-blind.
