This is the year of the Longtime Coming Sequel.
Last March, some  years after My Big Fat Greek Wedding, we got My Big Fat Greek Wedding .
A month later, a dozen years past Barbershop : Back in Business, along came Barbershop: The Next Cut.
In both cases: What a treat. I loved reuniting with those two beloved extended families from different parts of Chicago.
Now,  years since the delightful Bridget Joness Diary and a dozen years after the sour Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason, the delivery of Bridget Joness Baby is upon us.
I strongly urge you to celebrate this by renting the Greek Wedding and Barbershop sequels, or at the very least to avoid even thinking the words Bridget Joness Baby as you order your tickets online or you approach the ticket counter this weekend.
Some might say this movie is cinematic comfort food: Of course you know what youre getting, and while it might not be great for you, it provides some instant gratification and it leaves you feeling warm inside, at least for a while.
I found the experience more akin to taking a chance on that carton of food WAY in the back of your refrigerator  only to quickly realize your suspicions were right and youve just ingested something lousy and well past its Sell By date.
Even as a fairy tale, this is a joke. But not a funny one. Bridget Joness Baby is so predictable and so cloying and so insulting to the audience, from the plot twists to the editing choices to the iTunes playlist soundtrack to the misunderstandings so clichd it feelsas if they were lifted from a s sitcom, its a wonder all parties involved didnt just shrug their shoulders and walk off the set in defeat halfway through the movie.
The alleged comedy in Bridget Joness Baby is hideously obvious.
Lets start with Bridgets rdbirthday. Shes alone again, as her on-again, off-again, -year romance with Colin Firths Mark Darcy is permanently off. As Bridget Renee Zellweger narrates her tale of woe, All by Myself gives way to Insane in the Membrane by Cypress Hill, and yes, Bridget dances around her apartment while lip-syncing. Cringe.
And how do Bridgets office mates celebrate her rdbirthday? By greeting her with signs saying, HAPPY RDBIRTHDAY!, a cake with  candles, and singing, Happy rdbirthday to you, happy rdbirthday to you
Heeeelarious.
About that job: Bridget is a TV producer for a live news show. Of all the cinematic depictions of television news shows, this is one of the stupidest and most ridiculous. Also, Bridget is really, really, TRULY horrible at her job  which isnt funny at all. It just makes her seem like a fool who doesnt care.
Ah, but what about romance?
Patrick Dempsey plays Jack, the billionaire founder of a dating website that claims one can use algorithms to determine the perfect match. The website looks like something that was created in . Bridget and Jack hook up at an outdoor music festival supposedly populated by tens of thousands, but the way its filmed, with about  overacting extras in the background, is just embarrassing.
Even though Jack is a world famous billionaire, he seems to have no friends and no security team, and he talks of spending his days living in hotel rooms and airport lounges. Gee, youd think Jack would have, you know, a private jet and giant houses.
Shortly after trysting with Jack, Bridget sleeps with her old flame Mark Darcy, who is married but tells Bridget hes going through a divorce.
A couple of months later, Bridget learns shes pregnant. Whos the father? Who will win her heart? How will she balance her career and her pregnancy?
Bridget Joness Baby tackles these questions, and many more, in astonishingly inept fashion.
From start to finish, this film seems strangely out of touch, never more so than when it tries to come across as enlightened. The gay jokes, the Italian stereotypes and the all-Asians-look-alike gag really don't help the cause.
Whatever is next for Bridget Jones, might I suggest the working title of Bridget Joness Never Filmed Adventures.
