My question is, if you die when youre fat, are you a fat ghost, or do you go back to a flattering time?  Carrie Fisher, working out for her return as Princess Leia, in the documentary Bright Lights.
You might fairly ask if Id have given four stars to Bright Lights: Starring Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds if this iconic mother-daughter team hadnt died within a day of one another last week.
You might fairly ask if HBO moved up the release of Alexis Bloom and Fisher Stevens documentary to Jan. to maximize viewer interest.
I cant speak for HBO execs' motives. Given their channel's enormous financial success and given their track record for respecting artistry, and knowing its not as if an earlier release date for a documentary would make THAT much of a difference to their profit margin, I prefer to believe theyre sharing this amazing, wonderful, funny, fascinating, insightful film now because now is the time.
As for MY reaction to the film
I watched it mere days after we lost Carrie and Debbie. It would be disingenuous and insulting for me to say I wasnt thinking about that as I experienced the film.
But thats not why Im giving it four stars. Thats not why Im telling you its one of the best buddy comedies Ive seen in years. Thats not why Im saying its a beautifully filmed, whip-smart, perfectly edited love letter to a legendary mother-daughter duo that respects and honors their relationship without sugarcoating their troubled and checkered history.
Im saying all that because all that is all that.
Debbie Reynolds holds her new baby, Carrie Fisher, in an archival family photo seen in 'Bright Lights.'  HBO
The first five minutes of Bright Lights set the tone and let us know this is something special. As we see home movies of an impossibly young and unbearably adorable Debbie Reynolds with her two young children, Carrie and Debbie argue with one another, and Carrie challenges her mother: Who gets what in the will?
Cut to footage from the recent past. Carrie is in her late s' Debbie is in her s. They live in neighboring houses on a compound built by the actor Robert Armstrong, who in the  version of King Kong famously said, Twas beauty killed the beast.
As they say: You cannot make this s' up.
Carrie tells us she wishes her mother would retire, but standing in front of her moms wishes is like standing in front of a  what are those called?  not tiramisu. Tsunami. Shes Tsu-Mommy.
We bounce back and forth between Carries home, which includes such features as a Star Wars sculpture intended as a sexual device, to Debbies home, which looks exactly like a legendary movie stars home: a little bit amazing, a little bit sad.
This is the bathroom, says Carrie as she gives a tour of her mothers home. It has, as a lot of bathrooms should, a player piano.
Debbie fumbles with a story. Carrie says, Thats one of the great things about losing your memory  so many surprises.
But theres no trace of meanness or bitterness in their dynamic. Theyre at peace with where they are, and they are true best friends. Even with all their fame and all their wealth, Debbie and Carrie will remind you of so many mothers and daughters of that age that have become best pals but still have that mom-daughter thing going on.
Directors Alexis Bloom and Fisher Stevens have a masterful touch. Theduo clearly are huge fansof Carrie and Debbie, and obviously thedirectors havegained their trust  but when the time comes for Stevensto ask a poignant question off-screen to move things along, or to even enter the frame, hell do so.
Bright Lights reminds us Debbie Reynolds was a gigantic star, and her husband Eddie Fisher Carries father was an even bigger star for a few years, and when Eddie left Debbie for Elizabeth Taylor, it was the scandal of the s  but eventually Debbie and Liz became friends.
As for Eddie Fisher, onetime teen idol and mega-selling artist, who abandoned his wife and children, got hooked on crystal meth and lost everything: Carries visit to her dying father is unforgettable.
Star Wars fanatics are sure to love Carries comments after she finally started attending fan conventions and embracing her legacy as Princess Leia: Im her custodian and Im as close as youre gonna get to her. Shes me and Im her. They talk to me like Im Princess Leia.  Its nice. Theyre nice.
But for all the scenes of Debbie performing onstage at the South Point in Vegas, and Carrie telling stories about her life at the apex of her fame, and all the footage reminding us they were two major stars, my favorite moments in Bright Lights are the small, quiet scenes when mother and daughter are chasing their respective dogs around, sharing breakfast, launching into a duet just for fun, or bickering in that way a mom and daughter bicker after  years together, and no, you couldnt possibly understand us.
