 century, made-FROM-television stereotypes about rock-star chefs and their colorful, sometimes rebellious supporting kitchen players.
The chefs are immensely talented, manic-obsessive, insanely competitive artists who berate, belittle and abuse the free spirits, gifted newcomers and loyal veterans on their staff, all in the name of becoming the Next New Legend.
As for the diners: Well, they probably wont even appreciate the genius that goes into their meals, but theyre a necessary element to the equation.
This makes for a number of entertaining reality shows, though Ive always found it ludicrous when some red-faced Brit or tantrum-throwing American loses it over an overcooked piece of fish or a friggin cupcake that went sideways.
As an often clich-riddled tale of redemption on the big screen, Burnt is the equivalent of a sleek, well-lit, trendy restaurant serving up a mildly creative dishes on an otherwise predictable menu. OK, also predictable: critics unable to resist food metaphors in their reviews of Burnt. Guilty as charged.
Bradley Cooper, locked into genuine movie-star status, loads up on the star-crossed charisma as Adam Jones, a once-in-a-generation chef who soared to superstardom in Paris  only to crash and burn under the weight of his wretched excesses, included but not limited to alcoholism, addiction to multiple drugs and sex, and the destruction of his relationship with the daughter of his beloved mentor.
A decade later, Adam is sober, broke  and fiercely determined to make a comeback in a London kitchen, all the way to obtaining a coveted three-star rating from the Michelin Red Guide, the hallowed Bible of European hotels and restaurants.
As a young cook who idolizes Adam explains it to his girlfriend: A rating of one star is good, the equivalent of Luke Skywalker. Two stars is the guy played by Alec Guinness. Sidebar: Wouldnt a hipster millennial chef-in-training be more likely to know the name of Obi-Wan Kenobi than Sir Alec Guinness? Three stars, well, thats Yoda.
OK, we get it, three stars is the stuff. And of course Adams pursuit of three stars is just the symbol of Adams pursuit of redemption. Still, as far as actual stakes go, any number of movies about cops, absentee dads, poker players, boxers, teachers or even animated talking animals trying to mount a comeback provide more of a visceral investment than the tale of a ruggedly handsome jerko chef obsessing over a three-star rating in a fancy guidebook. Just sayin.
With one exception I wont reveal, just about everyone in Burnt loves Adam  or comes to love Adam. When his staffers say, Yes chef! they do it with more reverence than knights saying your grace on Game of Thrones.
You think Sienna Millers single-mom sous chef will be able to resist Adams rugged sexuality, even after he physically manhandles her and forces her to work on her little girls birthday? Please. Cooper and Miller, who were solid in their few scenes together in American Sniper, are terrific together here as well.
Uma Thurman has a cameo as a food critic who tells Adam she cant understand why she slept with him, given shes a lesbian. Hes magically sexual! Or is it sexually magical!
Emma Thompson is a Poppins-like therapist who wears sneakers and doles out maternal care to that irresistible rascal Adam. Ill put on a kettle, she says with a warm smile when he shows up bloodied and bruised on her doorstep.
Daniel Bruhl plays Adams old friend Tony, a gay matre d whose father owns the hotel where Adam opens a new restaurant. Tony uses his all-access card key to enter Adams room, snoop about, sniff his shirt  and then carefully fold it back into place. Easy there, Tony.
SPOILER ALERT: A few scenes after Tony confesses his love for Adam and Adam gently lets him down, Adam celebrates good news by rewarding Tony with a kiss on the mouth  and Tony is flush with gratitude. Its an insulting scene that would have seemed condescending even  years ago.
The esteemed veteran John Wells, best known for writing and producing top-notch TV fare such as ER, The West Wing and Shameless, directs Burnt with smooth flair. London looks great, the kitchen scenes are well choreographed, the close-ups of succulent dishes are enough to make you sprint for the nearest restaurant once the movie is over.
But thats the thing. You could leave halfway through the story and get an early dinner and, save for the details, youd pretty much know how it all works out with the movie.
Sorry Adam. Youre not getting that third star here.
