If only strapping young Doug Martin had watched Body Heat at some point in his strapping young life, he wouldnt be in the strapping young pickle he finds himself in!
Ah, these millennials. Too many of 'em think the erotic thriller was born with Wild Things.
Former brother-band pop idol Nick Jonas plays the aforementioned Doug Martin, and its a bland performance of a bland character with a bland name. Careful What You Wish For is aiming for lusty, lurid, B-movie titillation, but its not nearly as sexy nor nearly as clever as it would like to be.
Doug is a handsome, book-smart, Columbia-bound high school grad  but hes also such a nerd and so shy around the ladies hes a virgin. If you think it's a stretch for Jonas to play such a character with anything approaching believability, you would be correct. Even when hes tilting his head to indicate shyness, he looks like hes posing for a fan-girl website.
The Dougster is busing tables at a restaurant in a North Carolina resort town when hes offered the chance to make a few bucks on the side working on a boat owned by the wealthy and arrogant Elliot Dermot Mulroney, a fine actor who can play this sort of role in his sleep.
The beautiful Isabel Lucas plays Elliots younger trophy wife Lena, who takes one look at Doug taking a look at her and practically swallows him up from across the room.
Here we go. Theres no way these two arent hooking up.
You wont find many better looking onscreen couples than Jonas and Lucas, but they have tepid chemistry together, whether theyre between the sheets or engaged in stilted dialogue about life and love and what theyre going to do about mean ol Elliot.
Jonas is an OK actor and he does what he can with an underwritten part. Im sure Lucas is a nice person and the camera certainly loves her, but her line readings show the range of an aging softball player with two bad knees.
A couple of casting notes do spice up the proceedings. Paul Sorvino is the local sheriff, a crusty good ol boy who isnt above ripping up a bar owners speeding tickets if the owner buys a round of drinks for the house. Its not much of a role and its hardly one of Sorvinos most memorable performances, but hes still good fun because hes PAUL SORVINO.
I also enjoyed the work of Kandyse McClure as an investigator in a certain field. I dont want to say which field because that would give too much away. The performance is actually more impressive when we learn the truth about this character and her motivations. Its a nifty piece of acting by McClure.
In fact, Careful What You Wish For might have been a better film had the two leading ladies, McClure and Lucas, switched roles.
But not that much better.
