This just in: Spike Lees Chi-Raq isnt a broad comedy that makes light of the tragic levels of violence in Englewood, nor is it a gratuitous slam at our great city.
Its a shattering, thunderous wake-up alarm, a call to lay down arms, a gutsy social satire and a highly stylized work of fiction that sometimes feels as accurate and sobering as the crime reporting you see on the front page of this newspaper.
From the opening sequence reminding us in the last  years, more Americans have been killed in Chicago than in Iraq and Afghanistan combined, with Nick Cannons blistering and electric Pray  My City pounding home the point, Lee makes it clear Chi-raq isnt interested in polite discussion. This movie is in your face and reaching for your conscience.
For a film about violence, Chi-Raq has a much lower body count than, say, The Hunger Games or just about any superhero movie of the last decade. Most of the gunfire takes place in the first half-hour  first when a hit man opens fire at a South Side club where up-and-coming rapper and gang leader Chi-Raq Cannon is performing, and later that night, when the rival gang leader Cyclops Wesley Snipes sets fire to Chi-Raqs home and roars away as Chi-Raq comes running out and unleashes a hail of bullets into the night.
Roeper talks to Nick Cannon, John Cusack, Wesley Snipes and other 'Chi-Raq' stars
Spike Lee to Roeper: 'Don't get it twisted'
Its the latter episode that pushes Chi-Raqs girlfriend Lysistrata Teyonah Parris over the edge and out of Chi-Raqs arms. As you probably know, Chi-Raq is an update of the Greek comedy from  B.C. by Aristophanes.
Lysistrata moves in with a neighbor known as Miss Helen Angela Bassett, whose life was marred by tragedy a generation ago. Sickened by the escalating levels of violence in the neighborhood, Miss Helen urges Lysistrata to wield the power of her, um, sexuality as a weapon for peace. Within days, Lysistrata has enlisted every wife, girlfriend, mistress, stripper and hooker to the cause  much to the chagrin of gangbangers, law-abiding family men and even the bumbling, fumbling Mayor McCloud D.B. Sweeney, who blows a gasket in City Hall because his wife is on full lockdown.
Chi-Raq is filled with wild shifts in tone. Characters sometimes speak in verse. Sweeneys Mayor McCloud and Harry Lennixs political operative Commissioner Blades provide comic relief. Samuel L. Jackson is at his yelling-est best as Dolmedes, who dresses like a pimp and serves as the narrator for the story. Theres a dance number to O-o-h Child by the Five Stairsteps.
And we get a bizarre and not particularly funny bit involving a racist Southern military man David Patrick Kelly who runs the U.S. armory thats taken over by the striking women. Kelly is probably best known for playing creepy gang leader Luther in The Warriors. For no discernible reason, Lee pays tribute to Kellys famous Warriors, come out to play! line in Chi-Raq.
Just as often, though, Lee strikes a serious, straightforward narrative tone, in particular with scenes involving John Cusacks Father Mike Corridan modeled after Saint Sabinas Father Mike Pfleger and Jennifer Hudsons Irene, a grieving mother who doesnt understand why no one will come forward and identify her young daughters killer.
Cusacks fiery sermon at that little girls funeral is virtuoso stuff  as impressive as anything hes ever done. Hudson, whose mother, brother and nephew were murdered in , is heartbreakingly effective, especially so in a scene where she arrives on the crime scene and realizes the child under a white, bloodstained sheet on the street is her baby.
Chi-Raq takes aim at the gun culture, the gang culture, the government and a society that doesnt always care about killings as long as those killings are taking place OVER THERE. Of course the notion of a citywide sex strike is ludicrous  but so is the reality of young men shooting each other over gang colors and turf wars. Wesley Snipes plays the one-eyed Cyclops as a twisted clown with a weird, high-pitched laugh, while Cannon is raw and powerful as Chi-Raq, who clings to his gangster ways in part because he just doesnt know any other way. His absentee father was a hardcore gangbanger.
Teyonah Parris is a force as Lysistrata. Angela Bassett delivers some of the best work of her career as the world-weary but still passionate Miss Helen. Steve Harris is strong as an old-school chauvinist.
Chicago is also a star of this film. Deep into the story, the focus shifts briefly from Englewood to downtown, with Lee giving us postcard-perfect glimpses of Chicagos glimmering magnificence.
Its a startling reminder were watching a tale of two cities.
