Stop.
Someone in a position of power should have said just that long before Collateral Beauty ever made it to the big screen, and well before behold this cast! Will Smith, Helen Mirren, Edward Norton, Kate Winslet, Keira Knightley and Michael Pena climbed aboard this fundamentally flawed vehicle, convinced they had a heartwarming, spiritually uplifting tale to tell.
Collateral Beauty is a fraud. It is built on a foundation so contrived, so off-putting, so treacly, the most miraculous thing about this movie is this movie was actually made.
Im going to discuss a few key early plot points without spoiling any of the major developments, in the hope youll understand why I was so flabbergasted and flummoxed by this cheesy attempt at a holiday tear-jerker.
Will Smith is one of my favorite big-time movie stars of the last  years, but he takes a big swing and a miss here playing Howard, a legendary advertising genius heading a hipster Soho agency.
Were not just selling s', Howard says in an address to his fawning troops  but thats exactly what theyre doing, and thats exactly what this movie is doing.
Flash forward three years. Howard looks as if hes aged a decade. Hes detached and disinterested. The agency is losing business left and right, but Howard doesnt care.
Thats because Howard is broken. His -year-old daughter was taken from him by a rare form of cancer two years ago  and ever since then, Howard has shut out everyone, from his wife now his ex-wife to his business partners to his employees.
Edward Nortons Whit, Kate Winslets Claire and Michael Penas Simon are Howards business partners and closest friends. They love Howard and theyve supported him and covered for him  but they cant stand by any longer and watch Howard destroy the agency and everything theyve all worked so hard to attain.
Problem is, Howard has  percent ownership of the company. How do they wrestle control from him?
Turns out Whit had an affair with a junior account executive at the agency. It destroyed Whits marriage, and now Whits daughter wont even talk to him.
What does that have to do with the whole overthrow-Howard mission? Glad you asked! A private investigator named Sally Price Ann Dowd uncovered the aforementioned affair. So Whit, Claire and Simon hire that same investigator to tail Howard and dig up some dirt on him so they can prove hes not competent to run the company. Im serious.
Sally learns Howard has been sending letters  not to people, but to Love, Death and Time.
And this is where Collateral goes utterly mad.
Howards friends hatch a plan: Theyll hire actors to portray Love, Death and Time, respectively. The actors will confront Howard about the letters hes written. Howard will actually believe hes talking to Love and Death and Time, Sally the private investigator will record those moments  and voila! Theres your proof Howard is crazy.
Wow. Howards friends really suck.
Helen Mirren is Brigitte, who will portray Death. Keira Knightley is Amy, who will play Love. Jacob Lattimore is Raffi, cast in the role of Time. One by one, in character, they infiltrate Howards life, recite the contents of his letters back to him and give him grief about him wallowing in his grief.
Meanwhile, each of Howards so-called friends is dealing with a crisis with obvious symbolic ties to Howards tragic past  and each is paired up with the actor playing just the right character to further hammer home the point.
Of course, Whit and Clair and Simon are slow to realize that, because theyre too busy being the worst friends in the world with their elaborate and ludicrous plan to prove Howard is insane.
The screenplay for Collateral Beauty tips off the two biggest surprises with all the subtlety of a lout in the theater whohas already seen the movie and shouts, Didja see what just happened there! You know what that means, right?
Production values are just as phony as the story. Collateral Beauty is set mostly during the holidays in New York  but one minute theres a neighborhood scene in which every single house looks like it was decorated by a Hollywood crew, and the next minute theres a scene with not a Christmas decoration in sight.
Its quite possible Collateral Beauty will move you to tears. Then again, its quite possible youve been moved to tears by commercials about dogs that befriend horses, viral videos where students surprise a retiring teacher with a musical tribute andor violently yanking out one of your own nose hairs.
All three of those examples go about earning your emotions in a more legitimate way than this nonsense.
