Youre a f'ing genius!
No, Im just younger than you. Exchange between a ish tech exec and his younger protg in Creative Control.
Just about everyone who plays with various filters on Instagram and other social media occasionally dips into the black-and-white options for iPhone pics or quick little videos: your Moon, your Inkwell, even your Willow.
And just like that, POP! Your photo or your video jumps off the screen.
Triple threat writer-director-actor Benjamin Dickinsons cutting-edge techno-comedy-romance Creative Control is shot mostly in gorgeous, crisp widescreen black-and-white, and its the perfect palette for a relatively low-budget indie film with a heavy sci-fi vibe and ambitious special effects.
This is a cool, smart, funny, sexy, disturbing and consistently provocative effort.
Reminiscent of recent artificial intelligence romanticsexual near-future films such as Her and Ex Machina, Dickinsons film is set around the goings-on at a high-tech company thats about to launch a product called Augmenta' think a much faster, better, astonishingly effective version of Google Glass. The technology is so amazing, simulated sex with another human being  and you can make your partnerlook just like someone you know  is as intense as actual sex with another human being. Maybe more so.
Dickinson plays David, an ad exec in charge of the launching of Augmenta. The multimedia artist Reggie Watts, playing a hilarious, exaggerated version of himself, is brought in to help launch the product. All systems are go!
Problem is, Davids a fragmented, emotionally detached, self-obsessed hipster whos having an increasingly difficult time staying connected with reality. In other words, hes a classic and, yes, somewhat stereotypical, high-functioning Millennial.
Mired in a contentious relationship with a yoga instructor Nora Zehetner, David becomes obsessed with Sophie Alexia Rasmussen, the girlfriend of his photographer buddy Dan Gill, but we shouldnt feel too sorry for his buddy, because THAT guy is cheating on Sophie.
David creates an avatar of Sophie that looks, sounds and even feels like her. He falls in love with Sophie  or at least the virtual reality version of Sophie.
Complications ensue. Big-picture questions are posed about our increasing dependence on technology. And as were enjoying the beautiful cinematography and the fine acting and the dark humor, Benjamin Dickinson is delivering a signature work announcing his arrival as a filmmaker to watch for years to come.
