If youve ever yearned to see Dakota Fifty Shades of Grey Johnson in one of William Shakespeares lesser and more convoluted works, here you go!
Also, who ARE you that youve yearned for that?
Cymbeline is routinely referred to as one of Shakespeares problem plays  and I gotta say, updating the setting from ancient Britain to present-day United States while changing the Brits and Romans to a motorcycle gang and a local police force, respectively? Not a help.
Director Michael Almereyda, who made a kick-butt modern adaptation of Hamlet in , paints the screen with some impressive visuals while remaining largely faithful to the core elements of Shakespeares play although its been condensed quite a bit. The problem is, the plot wavers from nearly indecipherable to semi-ridiculous to  I stopped caring.
Ed Harris, who plays a crime boss in Run All Night, also plays a crime boss here. Hes the king Cymbeline, head of an outlaw motorcycle gang manufacturing and selling drugs. The Roman Police Dept., led by Cauis Lucius Vondie Curtis-Hall, is doing its best to keep the peace as the prospect of a turf war looms. The cops also are on the take. For now.
Harris, clad in leather jacket and speaking in measured tones, is effortlessly comfortable with the Shakespearean dialogue. The same can be said of Ethan Hawkes Iachimo' Milla Jovovich as Cymbelines wife the queen, and Delroy Lindo, among other veteran character actors.
The younger cast, not so much. Dakota Johnson tries hard but struggles as Imogen, daughter of the king and queen. The same could be said of the performance of Penn Badgley as her great love, Posthumus. Anton Yelchin is at best OK as Imogens slimy half-brother Cloten.
 century, were veering dangerously close to Saturday Night Live parody territory. If SNL thought it was a good idea to goof with troublesome, relatively obscure Shakespeare, that is.
Enraged when Imogen falls for Posthumus, Cymbeline banishes the lad. The scheming queen seizes on this opportunity to try to pair her son from a previous union to Imogen, and yeah thats creepy because remember, Imogen and Cloten are half-siblings.
Iachimo bets Posthumus he can seduce Posthumus beloved Imogen. Meanwhile, Imogen chops her hair to pass herself off as a boy. Theres also the possibility the king has other children he never knew about. And someone is thought be dead, but maybe not. Yipes! Its Sons of Anarchy meets Games of Thrones meets Hamlet meets something of a mess.
At times Cymbeline is actually riveting. In the films most haunting and beautiful scene, Jovovich delivers a stirring rendition of Bob Dylans Dark Eyes as the backdrop for a key montage.
Perhaps the whole movie would have worked as a musical of sorts. Perhaps not. Im OK if nobody tries that.
