The magic mans face is so buffed and shiny, it looks as if a Botox truck hit him.
His hair looks to be of a color not found in nature. It is so immovable the Jersey Boys would look to him for styling tips.
Moving about with flair and showmanship, he fills the air with cocky banter as he performs amazing feats.
He catches bullets in his bare hands! He can put mere mortals to sleep with a simple turn of phrase! He gazes into his magic crystal ball and can see all! And wait: Is that FIRE dancing from his hand? It is!
If you caught this guys act in a second-tier casino in Vegas because David Copperfields show was sold out, you might enjoy the performance.
Problem is, the sorcerer Ive described here is Matthew McConaugheys Man in Black, aka Walter ODim, aka the most evil and terrifying entity in the galaxy. As the devil incarnate in The Dark Tower, hes supposed to send chills down your spine and give you nightmares, but hes nothing but a preening, one-dimensional goof.
Im more frightened by the car commercial version of McConaughey who tells his dogs theyre not going for sushi again.
A great actor giving a terrible performance as the lead villain is but one of the many, many, MANY unfortunate elements in The Dark Tower, which is inspired by the Stephen King book series but comes across as more of a tribute to big-budget but poorly made sci-fi thrillers from the s.
The cinematography has a washed-out, dull tone. The special effects are mediocre. With a few exceptions, the dialogue is stilted and filled with expository passages so obviously intended to explain things to us, I half-expected characters to turn to the camera and say, Heres what you need to know so you can understand whats happening.
Tom Taylor plays Jake Chambers, an -year-old boy plagued by intensely realistic nightmares featuring the aforementioned Man in Black, a gunslinger on a mission to track down and kill the MIB, and a mysterious tower of epic proportions. Jakes notebooks and his bedroom walls are filled with drawings taken directly from these dreams.
Through a series of events with more than a passing similarity to certain circumstances in the first Terminator movie with a generous helping of the Men in Black movies on the side, we learn Jake isnt crazy, and in fact his dreams are accurate visions of an intergalactic war taking place far beyond Earth or Keystone Earth, as it is known in those otherworldly circles.
Jake finds a portal in Brooklyn A Portal in Brooklyn, wasnt that a Simon amp' Garfunkel song? and is sucked into the strange and forbidding Mid-World, with its vast mountains and deep, dark forests.
References to Stephen King works including It and  pop up from time to time in this movie. These types of Easter Eggs can be fun, but in this case add practically nothing to the story at hand.
In quick fashion, Jake stumbles upon the Gunslinger Idris Elba from his dreams. After the obligatory, gruff go home kid stuff from the Gunslinger, they join forces in the hopes of finding the elusive Walter ODim.
So it turns out the Dark Tower is a real thing. It is the one and only barricade protecting the inhabitants of all the planets including Keystone Earth from the unrelenting forces of evil lurking on the other side.
For eons, Walter ODim has been launching attacks on the Dark Tower. He wants to destroy the tower and become the ruler of a monstrous, hellish world. Doesnt sound like much fun, but at least Walter has goals.
But get this! The only weapon that can do damage to the Dark Tower is the psychic power of an exceptional child. These kids are said to have a shine  something miraculous in their mind that gives them supernatural abilities. Walter and his army of monsters have been systematically kidnapping children, torturing them and using their psyches as missiles to take down the tower.
Im not kidding.
Our boy Jake has the greatest shine of them all, so even as Jake and the Gunslinger pursue Walter, its Walter who is setting the trap on Keystone Earth to lure them into his web. Bahahahaha! If Walter can harness Jakes shine, he can destroy the Dark Tower once and for all!
The Dark Tower briefly springs to life when Jake and the Gunslinger return to New York. Weve seen this alien amazed by our crazy world shtick before, but its still funny when the Gunslinger reacts to a couple of call girls on the subway, and a clip he sees on TV featuring talking animals.
But soon were plunged back into the tedious tug of war between the smirking Walter and the noble but beleaguered Gunslinger, with little Jake trying to learn how to use his powers while coping with tragic personal loss. Unfortunately, young Tom Taylor is in over his head, especially when hes called upon to go big and convey shock and sorrow, or demonstrate fierce heroics.
Perhaps someone, someday, will have another go at The Dark Tower, and it will be a chilling and profound sci-fi Spaghetti Western, with meaningful King Arthur mythology and enduring characters.
The door is wide open. It wont take much to make us forget this version.
