I always like Michelle. You guys were great together.
 Yeah, well. You should see us apart.  Father and son discussing the sons ex-fiance in Dean.
Demetri Martins Dean produced as many smiles as any movie Ive seen this year.
I smiled in recognition of the relationship dynamics, whether it was a budding romance, an uncomfortable encounter with an ex, a longtime bromance or the sometimes bumpy tug-of-war between father and grown son.
I smiled at the smart and funny dialogue.
I smiled because its a treat to see such a talented and versatile sketch comedian, supporting actor, TV host and stand-up branch out even more as the writer-director-star of a terrific film that has echoes of Woody Allens romantic comedydrama work from the s and s, as well as more recent films such as Zach Braffs Garden State and the sharp and knowing indie films from Joe Swanberg.
Martin wisely plays to his strengths as Dean, an illustrator who specializes in sparse, New Yorker-type drawings. Deans cartoons pop up from time to time as a commentary on developments in his life. Even text message exchanges are illustrated as simple pencil sketches. Pretty neat.
Dean has a mop of hair that makes him look like the lead singer in a cover band specializing in mid-s pop groups such as the Monkees. His father Robert the always brilliant Kevin Kline inevitably greets him not with Hello son, but with, You need a haircut.
To say this is not a great time for Dean would be a massive understatement. Hes still coping with the death of his mother. He recently broke things off with his fianc, but now hes wondering if hell ever do better. His former roommate is getting married, and Dean is the best man  well, actually, the second best man out of the two best men in the wedding party.
Its Movie Law that grown children of a widowed parent will be shocked when said parent announces intentions to sell the house where the kids grew up. When Robert tells Dean hes putting the place on the market because its too big, Dean sputters, Cant you just cover the furniture in some of the rooms and maybe close the doors? Robert replies, What  like a countess?
At best spinning his wheels in New York, Dean heads to L.A. at the invitation of his old pal Eric Rory Scovel, terrific. The Annie Hall comparisons are obvious as Dean flounders about Los Angeles as the classic Fish Out of Water now living Near the Water.
Gillian Jacobs sparkles as a romantic interest for Dean who is harboring a pretty major secret. Meanwhile, back in New York, Robert is tentatively exploring a possible relationship with his real estate agent, played by Mary Steenburgen his co-star in Life as a House some  years ago and also in s Last Vegas. Their relationship is worthy of a movie unto itself.
Writer-director Martin does a stellar job of balancing sketch-comedy style laughs with genuinely touching moments. A confrontation with a guy from that vampire TV show at an art gallery is hilarious, but a small moment when Deans cell phone pings a reminder that says simply, Moms birthday, is heartbreaking. Think of all the smart phone and Google Calendar and Facebook birthday and anniversary reminders that pop up after weve lost a loved one. What was once a friendly techno-nudge becomes an unwelcome emotional shot to the heart.
Dean left me eagerly anticipating Martins next projects.
Also, Kevin Kline and Mary Steenburgen should share screen time in at least one movie a year, and wed all be the better for it.
