During one of the most intense moments of Dear White People, members of a black student group suddenly seem to notice one of their members appears to be Asian and Latino, after she casually mentions student groups representing those minorities are having meetings across the way.
Its as if theyre suddenly wondering: Hey, what are you doing here?
You guys have better snacks, she says with a shrug.
As was the case with early Spike Lee films such as School Daze and Do the Right Thing  and yes, you can expect nearly every review of this film to include a reference to Spike Lee, and why not  Justin Simiens Dear White People addresses core issues of racial stereotypes with equal parts humor and drama. When the leader of an African-American student movement is outed for having Taylor Swift on a secret playlist, she looks defeated and says, And I was so careful.
Although there are moments when the characters in Dear White People sound as if theyre reciting different sections of a thesis, overall Simiens screenplay is tight, funny, smart and insightful, and his direction has just enough indie feel without becoming too self-conscious or preachy.
Dear White People is set on the campus of a fictional, Ivy League-type institution called Winchester University, where the legacy Caucasian students co-exist with the small but growing number of black students who are constantly debating among themselves about the best way to change subtle and sometimes not-so-subtle institutionalized racism. White students cant seem to keep their hands off one kids gigantic Afro, as if theyre playing with a pet. Then again, that same kid is ostracized by many of his fellow African-Americans because hes gay. Simien constantly calls out all sides for their bull'-.
Its difficult to address stereotypes without having archetypes, and Dear White People is brimming with characters representing a particular backstory or viewpoint  although not everyone is being true to the role theyve assigned themselves, or the role their fellow students have ascribed to them.
Teyonah Parris is Colandrea, who calls herself Coco because she thinks her given name is too ghetto.
Tyler James Williams Everybody Hates Chris is terrific as Lionel, an aspiring journalist who feels unwelcome everywhere because the white students treat him like a novelty and the blacks deride his sexuality.
Tessa Thompson gives perhaps the best performance in the film as Sam White yes, Sam White  who becomes the leader of a student movement but struggles with her identity because her mother is black and her father is white. Shes also secretly dating a white student.
Brandon P. Bell is the son of the schools dean Dennis Haysbert, who is the head of the historically black residence hall but is facing a challenge from Sam.
Writer-director Simien keeps things flowing in relatively quiet fashion for the first hour or so  filling the soundtrack with as much Tchaikovsky as hip-hop, moving from residence hall to dorm room to outdoor campus scenes as nearly every conversation, whether its about a student revolution or what movie to see, eventually comes back to the issue of race. A black nerd asks a homecoming-king type if the students at his high school knew you were a Trekker. In her Dear White People podcast and vlog, Sam says whites have to have at least two black friends to avoid the appearance of being a racist, and no, your weed dealer, Tyrone, does not count. Theres a lot of talk about hairstyles and clothes, and who gets to use the n-word and when.
Then comes the Halloween party, in which white students put on blackface, hold guns sideways, blast hip-hop music, wear masks with caricatures of Barack and Michelle Obama and otherwise embrace what they perceive to be the African-American culture. It might seem like an over-the-top device, until were reminded in the closing credits that many such events have taken place on American campuses within recent years. Ill leave it to you to discover what happens at the party and what happens when black students hear about the party and crash the party, but even then, Dear White People doesnt take the easiest, most obvious paths.
When Barack Obama was elected in , it was of course a seminal moment in American history. It also gave birth to a new level of rage among a small but intensely vocal segment of population, who had a tendency to refer to the president of the United States as that Obama when calling in to conservative talk show hosts to question the presidents birth certificate.
Dear White People is a reminder that no matter what your race, its not just your dad, or your grandpa, still trying to some make some sense of it all. We all still have a long way to go, and that probably will still be the case a hundred years from now as well.
