Nearly every scene in Digging for Fire offers up a fresh slice of life, usually embodied in a familiar face or two showing up and moving the story in a different direction. Its the kind of movie where you elbow the person next to you when, out of nowhere, theres Anna Kendrick showing up for an impromptu pool party, or look, its Orlando Bloom at the end of the bar!
Not that were talking about glorified cameos here. These are working actors of various generations and levels of fame, no doubt attracted to this material because its that increasingly rare film thats all about the things people say when theyre in a room together  and the things they do when theyre left to their own devices.
Everyone in this movie talks a good game.
Jake Johnson who co-wrote the film with Fire director Joe Swanberg gives a terrific, offbeat performance as Tim, a public school teacher married to Lee Rosemarie DeWitt, a yoga instructor who should be more relaxed about life in general, given shes a yoga instructor. DeWitt specializes in playing the kind of characters who would say, I used to be a much nicer person.
RELATED: Jake Johnson's backyard discovery inspires 'Digging for Fire'
They have a hilariously adorable toddler son named Jude played by Swanbergs son Jude. They have a good, solid marriage. Sure, theyre in that zone where theyre not the twentysomething, irony-loving hipsters they once were  but theyre cool. Theyve got this.
Tim and Lee like to think of themselves as bohemian liberals, but theyre not above accepting money from Lees wealthy parents Judith Light and Sam Elliott so Jude can attend private school. Like political candidates campaigning for better public education while sending their offspring to private schools, they rationalize this by convincing themselves theres nothing wrong with wanting the best for your own.
Nor are they above jumping at the opportunity to spend a few weeks at a sprawling home in the Hollywood Hills that belongs to one of Lees yoga clients. In fact, they jump right into the lifestyle.
Puttering around the grounds one morning, Tim finds a rusty old revolver and something that could be a human bone poking out from the mud. Hes immediately intrigued to the point of near-obsession. What took place on this property so many years ago? Was it  MURDER?
Digging For Fire bears more than a slight resemblance to some of Woody Allens crime-themed pictures, such as Manhattan Murder Mystery and this summers Irrational Man, where the possibility of a violent act is the vehicle to discoveries of some deeply buried truths about certain characters.
Lee is only mildly intrigued by Tims discovery. She reminds him hes supposed to be doing their taxes before she sets out for some much-needed me time with her family  giving Lee the perfect opportunity to invite some of his bros over to down beers and join him in digging around the property in search of more clues.
Sam Rockwell plays Ray, that one guy from your group who refused to segue from hedonist to responsible married guy. He shows up at the house with two free-spirited lovelies: Max Brie Larson and Alicia Anna Kendrick, who quickly strip down and jump into the pool.
Meanwhile, out of town, Lees honor is defended at a bar by a guy named Ben Orlando Bloom, which results in Ben needing stitches, and Lee and Ben getting into dangerously flirty territory on the beach, under the moon. Like nearly every other scene in Digging for Fire, it plays out in an understated manner that might not make for the most dramatic fireworks, but feels right.
Director and co-writer Swanberg also edited the film, and there are some perfectly cut sequences. Just as Lee is getting too close to Ben, Tim is finding himself deeply attracted to Max, who shares his keen interest in literally digging for more information.
This is the most ambitious and the most mainstream film to date from Swanberg, whose previous works include Happy Christmas, Drinking Buddies and a segment of VHS. Equal parts film noir, relationship drama, dark comedy and mood piece, Digging for Fire is a movie made by someone who clearly loves the art of movies.
Director and co-writer Joe Swanberg and actor and co-writer Jake Johnson will appear at  and : p.m. Saturday screenings of 'Digging for Fire' at the Music Box Theatre.
