In the first  minutes of Paul Schraders Dog Eat Dog, Willem Dafoes Mad Dog has committed a double murder played as dark comedy' Nicolas Cages Troy has survived a murder attempt in prison and meets up with his buddies in a strip club, and Christopher Matthew Cooks Diesel has stomped a convenience store owner to pieces and torched his place.
Were trafficking in nasty territory here, folks.
Schrader is the writer of Taxi Driver, Blue Collar, Hardcore, Raging Bull, The Last Temptation of Christ. So yep, from the mid-s to the mid-s, Paul Schrader was the Real Deal and Then Some.
Hes also directed some pretty cool movies, e.g., Affliction and Auto Focus, as well as some what-in-the-world disasters such as the Lindsay Lohan train wreck The Canyons.
Dog Eat Dog falls somewhere in between, with the arrow pointing up.
Schrader himself is entertaining playing the crusty gangster Grecco, who hires Troy, Mad Dog and Diesel  all recently paroled, all one strike away from spending the rest of their lives in prison  to commit a series of high-risk jobs.
Mad Dogs a drug-addled sociopath who enjoys the thrill of the kill, and the relatively smart but violent-tempered Diesel isnt much better. Troy favors dapper attire, and hes an eloquent story-spinner and the brains of the outfit.
But these guys arent exactly criminal masterminds. In fact, theyre all screw-ups, whether theyre shooting and punching and stabbing their way through a job, or getting into weird conversations and bizarre transactions with prostitutes.
Schrader plays with filters from vignette to vignette, saturating one sequence in pink hues, shifting to full-on noir black-and-white for another scene, melting the screen to capture the druggie haze of Dafoes Mad Dog. In dialogue and tone, Dog Eat Dog has touches of some of Schraders previous work, as well as Oliver Stones Natural Born Killers and a number of Quentin Tarantino films. Most of the movie feels like Schraders way of reminding us, Remember when we made politically incorrect, nasty-edged R-rated movies with characters destroying everything in their path?
Not that Schraders asking us to like these guys. They can be entertaining when they talk about Facebook and Humphrey Bogart and Taylor Swift and why bartenders put ice in drinks that shouldn't have ice, but theyre demented menaces to society, and if you found yourself in a room with any one of them, youd be counting the seconds until you could figure a way to not be in a room with any one of them.
In a movie with them, thats another thing. Dog Eat Dog occasionally positions itself as social commentary, but its mainly a bloody, trippy, bare-fanged pulp thriller featuring terrifically entertaining performances from old dogs Cage and Dafoe.
