Maybe the problem with Dumb and Dumber To is we now live in a Jackass and YouTube world, where real-world clowns willingly engage in stunts far more idiotic than the relatively mild self-inflicted predicaments these two live-action cartoon characters find themselves in.
Maybe the problem is Jim Carrey is now  and Jeff Daniels is , and the bad haircuts and the malapropisms and the physical slapstick  they seem a little more forced and a little sadder. Daniels, such a fine actor, seems particularly out of place here, as if hes doing an over-broad character on a Saturday Night Live sketch as opposed to someone we want to hang with for  minutes.
Maybe its just not that funny when Carrey eats two hot dogs in gross-out fashion, or the fart jokes just keep on coming, or Kathleen Turners physical appearance is the centerpiece for jokes that come across as more mean than funny.
Its not that I was offended by the humor in Dumb and Dumber To. With a PG- rating and two lead characters who are essentially good-hearted and likable, this is actually a fairly tame effort from the Farrelly Brothers.
Sight gags about dead birds and a blind neighbor and a meth-crazed cat? Please. Its . You see more cutting-edge stuff on basic cable these days.
With a movie like Dumber and Dumber To  and for that matter, with a movie like the original  its all about whether or not there are enough stupid laughs to warrant a stupid recommendation. I cracked up a good half-dozen times at a particularly sharp one-liner from the screenplay-by-committee Bobby and Peter Farrelly share writing credits with four others or an inspired moment from Carrey or Daniels, but there were long stretches when the movie was just spinning its wheels.
Where have Harry Daniels and Lloyd Carrey been for the last  years? Theres a fairly clever explanation, but that quickly devolves into a cringe-inducing and laugh-free bit about Harry and two groundskeepers dont ask trying to yank out Lloyds catheter. Again, please dont ask.
Turns out Harry needs a kidney donation. His Asian parents break the news to him hes adopted  and thats a variation on a joke Gabe Kaplan told  years ago  but conveniently enough, Harry learns he fathered a daughter two decades ago. A genital donor match, as Lloyd puts it. Har.
They must find the daughter! Harry needs a kidney, and Lloyd  well, Lloyd falls in love with the girl based on one snapshot.
Off we go on a road trip with Harry and Lloyd, a road trip that takes longer than it should, thanks to one of the better extended gags in the film.
Carrey and Daniels throw themselves into the characters they inhabited  years ago, whether it means allowing their crotches to be doused, using their rear ends as comedic weapons, or just saying really stupid things. Sometimes its pretty damn funny. Almost always, it feels just a little bit desperate.
Of course actors can be funny in their s, s, s and beyond. In the right role, the right movie. Its just that THESE characters dont play as well two decades down the road. Its a little like watching one of those old-timer games where former superstars gingerly move about the basketball court or the baseball field with the shortened fences.
Rachel Melvin is a gamer as the airhead beauty who could be Harrys daughter  but many of the gags about her stupidity just sexualize her. She gives a long, intimate hug to a stranger in public simply because he requests the hug' she talks about the men on the Internet who have tricked her into taking off her clothes' shes in her underwear in front of the room service guy because  well. It doesnt matter.
Rob Riggle scores some laughs in a dual role as a villain and the villains brother. The rest of the supporting cast, including Laurie Holden from The Walking Dead as a conniving golddigger, arent given all that much with which to work.
Sequels that take place way down the road, instead of One Year Later, have always intrigued me.
Unfortunately, Dumb and Dumber To makes the case these guys were better off living in our memories instead of back on the big screen.
