A British single-seat Spitfire glides in near silence along the beaches of Dunkirk, France, no more than a hundred feet above the dull-colored sand and the bright, azure waters.
The Royal Air Force pilot has run out of fuel, and he has run out of options. Even if he manages to complete a successful landing on the beach, his fate is sealed.
This is but one brief moment in Christopher Nolans Dunkirk  but the beautiful and mournful and breathtaking visual of that lone plane outlined against the sky and the sand and the water is so powerful and so indelible, if I close my eyes, I can see it as clearly as when it appeared on the big screen.
Dunkirk is filled with such unforgettable scenes  some epic in scope, filmed in deep long shots, others so intimate and claustrophobic we have to remember to take a breath. It is a great film about one of the most pivotal battles in World War II, in which the ultimate goal of the heroes was not to emerge victorious but to somehow find a way to retreat in order to regroup and fight another day.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?w'h" class"size-large wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comreadyplayerone.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Allied troops await their fate in this scene from Christopher Nolan's 'Dunkirk.'  Warner Bros.
The events in Dunkirk take place some  months before the bombing of Pearl Harbor plunged the United States into World War II, but many historians say if things had gone differently on those beaches in May and June of , Europe would have been overrun by the Nazis.
Writerdirector Nolan has built his enormously successful career trafficking in the time-bending and the fantastical Memento, Inception, the Dark Knight trilogy, but with Dunkirk he delivers a faithful and deeply respectful re-telling of history  albeit while zig-zagging along the timeline and showing the same event from multiple viewpoints. It makes for an enthralling if at times slightly confusing work that demands and commands our undivided attention.
The opening sequence has the pace and the feel of the third act of many a war film  and in fact the entire movie feels like a final act. Theres very little exposition, almost no backstory. Everything is focused on the situation at hand. With a running time of  hour and  minutes, Dunkirk is much shorter than most of Nolans films.
Nearly , total Allied troops, most of them French and British, have been penned in by the Germans  but we follow just a small band of troops, and then just one soldier, a callow Brit named Tommy Fionn Whitehead in a strong everyman performance, as he scrambles over fences, dashes down abandoned streets and dives for cover while bullets rain all about.
When Tommy finally stumbles onto the Mole  an extended jetty at the outer harbor of Dunkirk  he is met with an overwhelming and almost surreal tableau: thousands of Allied troops standing in long, parallel lines, facing the English Channel. They dont even bother with their weapons, because their rifles are useless at this point.
The Channel is the only means of escape  but the waters are too shallow for larger British Navy vessels to pick up the men, and Luftwaffe planes are periodically buzzing overhead, dropping bombs on troops that are sitting ducks. It seems to be an untenable situation sure to result in thousands upon thousands of Allied casualties.
In England, the call goes out for civilian boats of all manner and size to come to the aid of their countrymen  and literally hundreds of motor boats, steamers, barges, private yachts and fishing boats set out for Dunkirk, to retrieve the troops and bring them all the way home or to Navy ships awaiting off the coast.
With Hans Zimmers pounding, electrifying score and some perfectly timed and sometimes jarring editing choices ramping up the tension, Dunkirk weaves multiple storylines, as we experience the massive evacuation effort from the perspective of a number of angles, including:
 A quietly determined, middle-aged civilian boat captain Mark Rylance in a brilliant performance who says men his age create these wars  so the least he can do is try to save some of the young men whose lives are in peril.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?w'h" class"wp-image- size-large" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combb-msgcc-e.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
James D'Arcy and Kenneth Branagh star in 'Dunkirk.'  WARNER BROS.
 A noble British Naval commander Kenneth Branagh, excellent as always who takes on the nearly impossible mission of evacuating tens of thousands of Allied troops. The commander wistfully notes one can practically see home from Dunkirk, and yet it might as well be a thousand miles away.
 Two RAF pilots Jack Lowden and Tom Hardy engaging in one dogfight after another with the enemy, sometimes just a few hundred feet above the water.
 A shell-shocked British soldier Cillian Murphy whose mere presence on a civilian boat puts the captain and his crew of two teenage boys in peril.
Nearly every scene in Dunkirk brings about another moment of crisis, another opportunity for heroics, another instance of young soldiers and their commanding officers scrambling to evacuate while facing peril at every turn.
This is an intense but not especially violent film. Nolan opted for a PG- rating and eschewed graphic scenes of bloodshed in favor of focusing on the emotional, psychological and spiritual challenges facing these young soldiers.
Fine work from the cast, from veterans such as Rylance and Murphy and Hardy and Branagh, through newcomers such as Whitehead and the pop singer Harry Styles.
But the star of Dunkirk is the movie itself. Nolan has crafted a tight, gripping, deeply involving and unforgettable film that ranks among the best war movies of the decade.
