The reason Im hardly likely to be the only reviewer to say Eddie the Eagle is Rudy on the ski slopes is because Eddie the Eagle IS Rudy on the ski slopes.
With more than a dash of Cool Runnings to boot.
Rudy, of course, was a fictionalized, unapologetically sentimental, undeniably inspirational story about an undersized, overachieving, irritatingly upbeat underdog who was doggedly determined to make the Notre Dame football team and perhaps even get into a game, even though everyone from his own father to his peers to his coaches told him he was a dreamer and it would never happen.
Eddie the Eagle is a fictionalized, unapologetically sentimental, undeniably inspirational story about an undersized, overachieving, irritatingly upbeat underdog who was doggedly determined to make the British Olympics as a ski jumper, even though everyone from his own father to his peers to Olympic officials told him he was a dreamer and it was never going to happen.
Director Dexter Fletcher paints Eddies story in broad, bold strokes, never missing an opportunity to milk a suspenseful dramatic turn or go for the relatively easy laugh  but its a style well-suited to this wonderfully ridiculous story.
Taron Egerton Kingsman: The Secret Service gives a winning performance as one Michael Eddie Edwards, an irrepressible sort with oversized glasses that never seem to quite fit on his face, a mustache accurate to the s setting  and the bounce-back capabilities of one of those wobble punching bags with the weighted bottoms.
RELATED: Hugh Jackman, Taron Egerton tour Chicago by helicopter with Roeper
After failing to make the British downhill skiing team, Eddie sets his sights on ski jumping, even though he has zero experience in the sport and the Brits didnt even have a ski jumping team. Through a quirk in the rulebook, if Eddie lands a minimum-qualifying jump in a sanctioned meet, boom: Hes an Olympian! When Eddie does just that, hes off to Germany to train for the  Calgary Olympics, which are just a few months away.
The hierarchy of the staid British Olympic Association is mortified by the bumbling Eddie, and they try to ban him from competing, but its out of their hands. World-class jumpers from Finland and other countries with rich ski-jumping legacies have been doing this since they were children  and Eddie thinks he can figure it out in a few weeks? Its practically a suicide mission.
Enter Hugh Jackman as Bronson Peary a wholly fictional creation, who could have been the greatest ski jumper of all time back in the day were it not for his selfishness and his lack of respect for the sport. Now Bronsons a hard-drinking, crusty, washed-up ski bum  but wouldnt you know it, he finally breaks down and agrees to coach Eddie, who of course was never going to take no for an answer.
Jackmans still a dashing leading man and its a bit of a stretch to buy him as broken-down has-been, but he and Egerton have a warm father-son chemistry that plays well.
Christopher Walken shows up out of nowhere as Bronsons former coach, a legend wholiterally wrote the book on ski jumping. Its not clear if Walken thinks hes in a comedy or hes just having fun hamming it up, but either way its a hilarious cameo. Even Walkens face on the cover of that book produces a hearty laugh.
The final act of Eddie the Eagle is set at the Calgary Games, where the unknown Eddie became an instant sensation and earned the Eagle nickname after flapping his arms about like a bird after sticking one landing. Jim Broadbent is hilarious as a British sports announcer who is greatly amused and quite impressed by Eddies fortitude.
Nobody thought for even a second Eddie could actually compete for a medal. But Eddies brave and crazy quest to jump from  meters, even though a fall could have caused serious injury or even death, is the stuff of inspirational sports movies.
Director Fletcher does a fine job of mixing stunt work, CGI and close-ups and medium shots of actors, sometimes showing the jumps from their point of view. We feel as if were soaring with Eddie. Some of the stuff about Eddie trying to earn the respect of his father, and Bronson seeking the approval of HIS father figure, goes over the top, around the bend and over the top again.
Still, you couldnt resist Rudy and youre not going to be able to resist Eddie the Eagle. These guys are champions.
