The HBO series Entourage was a slick, funny, sexy slice of eye candy, loosely based on Mark Wahlbergs early adventures in Hollywood as a rising star  but by the time the show ended its seven-year run in , it had already been spinning its wheels for a couple of years.
Four years later, here comes Entourage the movie, and its like catching up with an old friend and remembering why you dont hang out with him anymore: Hes stuck in a rut and he has nothing new to say.
Prettyboy leading man Vincent Chase Adrian Grenier is betting his career on a risky, expensive vanity project.
Vinnies clueless lunk of an older brother, Johnny Drama Kevin Dillon, has a supporting role in Vincents movie and is hoping hell FINALLY have a career breakthrough.
Vinnies manager Eric E Murphy Kevin Connolly is in the throes of a romantic dilemma.
The hapless Turtle Jerry Ferrara is bungling his way through a courtship and still fighting for respect in Hollywood  and hes still driving the guys around town, even though hes worth millions thanks to his tequila company.
Ari Gold Jeremy Piven, three-time Emmy winner for the role and still stealing every scene hes in is no longer an agent  hes running a studio  but he still seems to spend every waking minute obsessing over Vinnies career and trying to manage his rage issues.
Nearly every other scene contains a celebrity cameo. Theres Russell Wilson at a party! Liam Neeson at a stoplight! Jessica Alba on a studio lot! Even Mark Wahlberg himself!
Where have we seen this all before? Oh, thats right: the TV series.
You know a movies in trouble when several minutes are devoted to a Piers Morgan interview with Vinnie and E. Piers Morgan as Piers Morgan? I dont want to see that on TV, let alone on the big screen.
Written and directed by series creator Doug Ellin, Entourage the movie picks up just a few days after the events of the series finale, and heres your SPOILER ALERT.
When we last saw the gang, Ari had just been offered the opportunity to run a studio' E was trying to make a go of it with a pregnant Sloan Emmanuelle Chriqui' Vincent was getting married' and Johnny Drama and Turtle were, um, being Johnny Drama and Turtle.
Now Vinnies getting an instant divorce, E and Sloan are on the outs, a slimmed-down Turtle is pursuing UFC superstar Ronda Rousey, Johnny Drama is humiliated on the Internet and on an audition and Aris freaking out because his first movie as a studio chief is a  million remake of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde called Hyde, with Vincent directing himself as the title character, whos now a DJ. The movie within the movie is even worse than it sounds.
Even the insider-Hollywood stuff feels a bit off. Ari jets down to Texas to plead with a billionaire Billy Bob Thornton and his idiot son Haley Joel Osment for a few extra million to finish Hyde. The son comes back with Ari and essentially holds the movie hostage in a series of scenes that feel cartoonishly inaccurate.
 
The Hollywood of Entourage is overflowing with gorgeous women, all of whom will go home with Vincent if he even looks in their direction. At least Debi Mazar as Vinnies publicist and Constance Zimmer as an exec are strong women with real careers. Theres gratuitous nudity, lots of partying, zippy camera moves, plenty of product placement and did we mention all those celebrity cameos?
It all feels more like a rerun than a fully formed, stand-alone movie.
