Again with the dystopian society where everyone co-exists peacefully, but emotions have been wiped out and if you fall in love youre risking your life?
Equals is a well-made, well-acted, visually arresting film that is so bland it will chip away at YOUR ability to feel anything. You admire the look and the performances, and some interesting ideas are presented, but everything feels muted and predictable and lacking in spark.
As is often the case with futuristic films, just about everyone in Equals dresses in monochromatic tones and lives in antiseptic dwellings and is a semi-willing participant in a drone society.
And of course we get a pulsating, electronic score thats more invasive and annoying than helpful.
Equals is set in a post-apocalyptic future where much of the Earth is uninhabitable and the surviving population has established a nation ruled by The Collective, which has eradicated nearly all diseases but has also genetically engineered the species to feel almost no emotion.
Theres no falling in love. Theres not even any sex. The species is repopulated via artificial insemination.
Its a Fun-Free Future.
If you DO start to feel something for someone, youre diagnosed with Switched on Syndrome, aka SOS.
I know. Kinda hokey, right?
Getting tagged with SOS means youll be yanked from society and banished to the Peninsula, which is nothing like the upscale luxury hotel. Its essentially a futuristic Alcatraz where youll likely be driven to kill yourself.
Now then. The few humans who DO feel emotions and manage to hide it from the Collective are known as, well, Hiders. But if the hiders are caught hiding  not good.
The talented young actor Nicholas Hoult the boy in About a Boy who has grown up to roles in the X-Men movies, Warm Bodies and Mad Max: Fury Road is Silas and Kristen Stewart is Nia. Theyre co-workers employed by the Collectives Speculative Non-Fiction branch, where they research and write about life on Earth back in the day.
Silas takes one look at Nia and hes a goner. He clearly has SOS. Nia doth protest too much, saying shell report Silas if makes any kind of a move on her, but come on, we can see that look in her eyes.
Which brings us to Romeo and Juliet,' forbidden-love territory.
Guy Pearce, who is developing a penchant for showing up in movies and making them better in limited screen time, shines as Jonas, a rogue who helps SOSers find their dreams and avoid persecution by the Collective.
Stewart bites her lip because thats what she does in every movie, and she taps into her Melancholy Girl thing  but that doesnt means she isnt effective in her own way. Hoults muted work is about as far away from his Fury Road persona as one can get, but he has his moments as well.
Theyre good actors mired in a gorgeously photographed but below-average thriller.
