BY RICHARD ROEPER  SUN-TIMES MOVIE COLUMNIST
If youre going to go all-in with the gorgeous and chilling and sometimes ludicrous Ex Machina, if youre going to buy into the lofty debates and the wiggy humor and the borderline misogynistic notion of the perfect woman, youll have to check your logic at the ticket counter.
 The next few paragraphs contain mild, spoiler alert details.
Example. Oscar Isaac, rapidly becoming one of the most magnetic actors on the planet, plays Nathan Bateman, a reclusive, genius billionaire tech guru with a shaved head, the long beard of an eccentric relief pitcher and a disarming passive-aggressive personality.
Nathan lives and does his research in a huge compound in the most remote corner of Alaska. Apparently Nathan has exactly one household employee: Kyoko Sonoya Mizuno, a Japanese servant who doesnt speak English.
Hmmm. So who dusts and cleans the dozens upon dozens of rooms in the compound? Who gets the groceries and the booze? Who trims the landscaping?
Just saying.
There are myriad other head-scratching questions one might have after experiencing Ex Machina, but as a cinematic mash-up of Metropolis, : A Space Odyssey, My Fair Lady, Blade Runner and 'Her, among other films, and with one of the most impressive CGIhuman characters Ive seen, this is a dizzyingly effective sci-fithriller.
Itsa small film with big ideas. There are essentially only four characters. In addition to Nathan  whos a combination of Steve Jobs and a mad scientist  and his assistant Kyoko, whoswell, I dont want to give it away' theres Domhnall Gleesons Caleb, a bright and eager programmer, and Alicia Vikanders Ava. More on Ava in a moment.
Caleb works for Nathans company, Blue Book, the dominant search engine in the world. He wins a company-wide contest to spend a week at Nathans compound, participating in a Turing Test, i.e., an experiment gauging an artificial beings capacity to demonstrate human behavior, including intelligence and emotion.
Enter Ava. Shes Nathans latest creation, and she is wondrous. Ava is covered partially in a metallic mesh-type skin, but we can literally see through her, to the inner workings of her brain, her organs, her skeletal structure.
Ava sometimes tilts her head like a curious animal in the wild, she speaks in that pleasant, slightly robotic tone of the American Express Phone Lady or Siri, and she is aware of her origins as a Nathan-made machine  but she seems more human than artificial. She isnt smart like a computer. Shes smart like someone who knows how to program computers.
" data-medium-file"" data-large-file"" class"size-full wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comex-machina-exmachinaface-to-face-rgb.jpg?w'h" alt"Kyoko Sonoya Mizuno, left comes face to face with Ava Alicia Vikander in quot'Ex Machina.quot'  A Films" width"" height"" 
Kyoko Sonoya Mizuno, left comes face to face with Ava Alicia Vikander in 'Ex Machina.'  A Films
Nathan welcomes the eager and bright Caleb with open arms and open bottles of vodka and beer. When Nathan isnt lifting weights or barking commands at Kyoko or getting falling-down drunk, he engages in head-spinning conversations with Caleb about computer codes and artificial intelligence and Calebs daily sessions with Ava, in which she seems to be testing Caleb as much as Caleb is testing her.
Writerdirector Alex Garland who penned Sunshine and  Days Later turns up the tension slowly, notch by notch, scene by scene. Nathans compound has a personality of its own. At times it feels like a reinforced Man Cave, what with Nathans passion for flowing drinks and free weights and whatever the deal is with the mute Kyoko. A scene in which Nathan and Kyoko execute a perfectly timed dance number as if theyre contestants on Dancing with the Stars is one of the looniest things Ive seen in a while. Its exhilaratingly stupid.
" data-medium-file"" data-large-file"" class"size-full wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comex-machina.jpg?w'h" alt"Domhnall Gleeson left and and Oscar Isaac star in quot'Ex Machina.quot'  A Films" width"" height"" 
Domhnall Gleeson left and and Oscar Isaac star in 'Ex Machina.'  A Films
At night, though, the compound is the perfect setting for a horror film. Calebs room feels like a prison cell. The ubiquitous cameras and monitors provide jarring visuals, as Caleb begins to realize theres a lot more to this Turing Test than Nathan originally explained.
Its no surprise when Caleb begins to feel affection and maybe something more for Ava. She is sweet and alluring and sympathetic and perhaps in need of rescuing. Shes also beautiful and she seems to know that. The puppeteer Nathan crudely explains to Caleb, that yes, Ava has been built to experience ALL the sensory pleasures available to humans.
One clanging false note: the security key cards used by Nathan and Caleb to navigate the premises. These key cards become increasingly important, and one can help but think, theres no way the worlds foremost tech genius, whos guarding a multi-billion-dollar experiment, would rely on the same device you and I employ to get out of the parking garage.
In films such as Inside Llewyn Davis and A Most Violent Year, Oscar Isaac, the man with two first names, has shown an uncanny knack for playing quietly intense, often unlikable characters that nonetheless have an undeniable magnetism. Same thing here. At one point Isaac has a one-word response to a challenge from Caleb, and its just hilariously perfect. Never has OKAY! said so much.
Gleeson is perfectly cast as the super smart but naive Caleb. We see through Ava through his eyes, and we understand how he is so quickly taken with her.
The Swedish actress Alicia Vikander The Fifth Estate infuses Ava with the just the right mixture of iciness, vulnerability and mystery. Its a star-making performance.
