The Stanford Prison Experiment, based on the  psychological exercise in which  college students were randomly selected to play the role of guards and  were chosen to play prisoners, with disturbing results.
Now comes Experimenter, based on the  exercise and a number of subsequent, related studies in which paid participants were told to send increasingly painful electric shocks to test-takers every time a wrong answer was given.
Apparently its the year of the period piece, behavior-study movie.
 century whorecruited ordinary people to participate in extraordinary exercises, to startling and sometimes flat-out shocking results.
With his forever forehead, his intelligent eyes, his disarmingly calm manner and at times some truly ghastly facial hair, Peter Sarsgaards Dr. Stanley Milgram is a quirky but undeniably commanding figure  an unorthodox academic who conducts his ethically questionable experiments with almost ruthless efficiency.
Let others cast doubts about Milgrams methodology. Hes  percent convinced hes doing important work, and if you disagree  well, that just means youre wrong.
Milgrams first notable experiment, which takes place in the basement of a building at Yale in , at first seems to about discerning the effectiveness of pain as a teaching tool.
A handsome, serious man John Palladino in a gray lab coat hands envelopes containing paychecks to two regular-looking, middle-aged, visibly nervous men: Miller Anthony Edwards and McDonough Jim Gaffigan.
By a seemingly arbitrary method, Miller is chosen to be the authority figure whoasks multiple-choice questions, and McDonough will be the subject.
Miller will be in one room and McDonough will be on the other side of a wall, heard but not seen. Each time McDonough selects the wrong answer, Miller is to press a button giving McDonough a painful electric shock that gets worse each time.
McDonough yelps with pain, pleads for mercy  and even goes silent at one point, leading Miller to wonder if the man is unconscious or worse.
And yet Miller keeps on flipping the switches that administer hundreds of volts of electricity to McDonough, the affable man he met just a few hours ago.
In fact, McDonough works with Milgram, and hes just pretending to be hit with those electric shocks. Milgram doesnt care about studying pain as a teaching tool' hes interested in learning about how far his subjects will go, how much pain they will inflict, simply because an authority figure in a lab coat is giving them the OK to do so.
Milgram conducts the same experiment on hundreds of subjects, with McDonough as the test-taker every time. Gaffigan is terrific as the mild-mannered accountant who has been hired to play the perpetual victim and becomes something of a Method performer.
Some  percent of the time, the test-givers keep on administering those electric shocks until there are no more questions to be asked, no higher voltage to be inflicted.
The study launches Milgrams career as a celebrity  and as a figure of much controversy, as he conducts a number of experiments in which subjects arent told the truth about the nature of the study.
In one of the films best scenes, Milgram brings a portable radio into class on Nov. , , and tells his students the president has been shot. Their first reaction is to ask him what kind of experiment hes conducting.
Writer-director Michael Almereyda is a true talent with a seemingly endless array of stylistic tricks up his sleeve, but thats not always a good thing. Fairly late in the story, we get a scene about a s TV movie based on Milgrams book, with Kellan Lutz playing William Shatner, and Dennis Haysbert playing Ossie Davis. Its a mess.
The character of Milgram breaks the fourth wall and addresses us directly. One extended segment looks like something out of a pop-up book, with the characters outlined against deliberately flattened-out backdrops. At times the score is so dramatic and forceful it almost has to be a joke of some kind.
Sarsgaard is a fine actor, but his portrayal of Milgram sometimes seems more about the mannerisms and the tics than giving us true insight into the character.
Winona Ryder gives a solid, more accessible performance as Milgrams wife. Familiar faces from Anton Yelchin monumentally irritating and actor-yin just a few minutes onscreen and John Leguizamo quietly effective show up in cameos of wildly varying quality.
In a way and maybe it was a conscious choice, some of Almereydas flourishes mirror Milgrams flamboyance  but in both cases, when you have such a provocative foundation and such rich material to work with, pushing it to the next level isnt necessarily the best choice.
