This is the year of the Long-Time-Coming Sequel.
We had a -year gap between Barbershop : Back in Business and Barbershop: The Next Cut.
There was a -year spread between the release of the first My Big Fat Greek Wedding and the sequel last March.
A full  years separate the original Independence Day from its follow-up story, arriving in theaters June .
And this week, some  years after the phenomenal success of the unique and beautiful and lovely and wonderful Finding Nemo, the forgetful blue tang from the original gets her own adventure in Finding Dory.
Once again, the magic-makers at Pixar have created a gorgeous underwater and occasionally above-ground universe populated by a diverse collection of marine creatures, many of them sounding just like popular sitcom actors and TV personalities and movie stars.
And once again, theres a heart-tugging story involving parents and children and the true meaning of family, and Ill be damned if I didnt find myself gulping hard at some of the more emotionally involving moments. How do they make us care so much about bug-eyed fishes! Curse you, Pixar geniuses!
Finding Dory is also an admirable message movie sure to be used as a teaching tool to show children and remind adults that just because someone has special needs doesnt mean that person doesnt have special, unique abilities.
Its a solid, entertaining, well-paced sequel featuring terrific voice work, a clever script and some ingenious action sequences. It just doesnt quite reach the soaring heights of inspirational storytelling and elevated humor of the original.
Ellen DeGeneres gives terrific voice and heart to Dory, an earnest blue fishie with short-term memory loss that makes her basically Memento of the Sea. Mere seconds after Dory says something or hears something or learns something, theres a better than  chance shell have forgotten it.
In a backstory featuring Sloane Murray as the impossibly cute little Dory, we learn how Dory was separated from her parents Charlie and Jenny Eugene Levy and Diane Keaton, respectively, and you dont get voice casting any better than that.
Flash forward to about one year after the conclusion of Finding Nemo, with worrywart clownfish Marlin welcome back, Albert Brooks living happily ever after with this son Nemo newcomer Hayden Rolence  while Dory takes up residence next door in a shell of brain coral, plagued by short-term memory loss and yet obsessed with finding the parents she lost so many years ago.
Dorys quest to find her parents takes her across the Pacific Ocean to the Marine Life Institute off the California coast, with Marlin and Nemo along for the ride, because lets face it, theyre clownfish, and the life of a clownfish isnt all that exciting if you dont have some sort of quest to fill your days. Also and of course more to the point, by now they consider Dory family.
Ed ONeill has the juiciest new character role as Hank, a crusty, scheming octopus  hes lost a tentacle, so hes referred to as a septopus  who befriends Dory with ulterior motives but finds he might have a heart after all. Actually, as Dory points out, he has three hearts. As Finding Dory progresses, not only does Dorys memory improve, she seems to find a reservoir of intelligence out of nowhere. Its a robust and funny performance by ONeill.
ONeills Modern Family son-in-law, Ty Burrell, is a kick as Bailey, a beluga whale' Kaitlin Olson is Dorys childhood friend, the whale shark by the name of Destiny' Idris Elba who was also heard in Zootopia and The Jungle Book this year is funny as a sea lion named Fluke.
Slight problem: In terms of character and personality traits, Bailey, Destiny, Fluke and a handful of supporting fish and mammals arent all that distinct from one another. Theyre all variations on sweet and slightly goofy and willing to pitch in to help Dory find her parents.
I did love how writer-director Andrew Stanton, co-director Angus MacLane and co-writer Victoria Strouse kept coming up with ways to bounce Dory and her clownfish sidekicks from one water-based locale to another, from the vastness of the Pacific Ocean to the relatively confined spaces of Montereys Marine Life Institute to an aquarium to a water pail to even tighter quarters. These situations make for some wonderfully choreographed comedic action pieces.
As for Dorys short-term memory loss, of course were not getting a realistic representation of how someone battling such a condition would navigate the world. For all its heart and humanity, this IS a movie about talking fish, and if some analysts and critics take issue with Finding Dory for inexact science, well, they must be a lot of fun at cocktail parties.
