Angelina Jolie is making it quite clear shes not interested in trifling material when shes behind the camera.
 Unbroken to her latest work, which is her most personal and most involving film yet: First They Killed My Father A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers.
Based on the memoir from Loung Ung who co-wrote the screenplay with Jolie, First They Killed My Father is set during the short but unforgettably brutal Khmer Rouge regime of Cambodia in the mid- to late s, during which some  million died from starvation, disease and execution.
The story is told through the eyes of a child.
After a montage of news footage and film clips serving as a brief history lesson and establishing the time period  the United States has recently withdrawn from Cambodia  were introduced to five-year-old Loung Sreymoch Sareum and her tight-knit, loving, middle-class family in Phnom Penh.
Its a simple, warm life. Loung happily flits about in a dress and pigtails, playing with her siblings, drawing and coloring, singing along to a pop song on the radio.
But that peaceful world is shattered when the Communist Khmer Rouge soldiers take command, forcing residents to evacuate and demanding they give up all material possessions and any signs of Western culture.
Families are separated. Adults are summarily executed. Teenagers are sent off to labor camps. Luong eventually winds up in a camp where she is trained as a soldier, even though she is still a few years shy of her th birthday.
Jolie and cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle the great lensman on a number of Danny Boyle films, including Slumdog Millionaire and  Hours do a magnificent job of giving First They Killed My Father the look and heft of an epic. This movie is filled with memorable shots, from sweeping overhead visuals of enslaved labor working the fields to intense and sometimes brutal sequences with little or no dialogue. First They Killed My Father is in the Cambodian language Khmer, with English subtitles, adding to the authenticity of the material.
Much of what transpires is reflected in the facial expressions of Sreymoch Sareums Loung. Its a wonderful and natural performance from a non-professional. And it would hardly be a stretch to surmise Jolie was a major guiding force behind the performance.
First They Killed My Father occasionally strays into overly sentimental territory  and with a running time of  hours,  minutes, the storyline stalls a bit at times. Mostly, though, this is an accomplished and moving and solid drama from a director who seems on the verge of giving us a great movie sometime soon.
