Will Smith became a giant movie star because we took him seriously, even when he was doing roles that were mostly comedic.
We know Smith has serious acting chops thanks to his roles in films such as Ali and The Pursuit of Happyness, but even in big, loud, goofy fare such as Independence Day and the Men in Black movies, Smith sold every inch of his performance.
Smiths star has been shining less brightly lately after the disaster that was After Earth and a smallish role in the equally terrible Winters Tale, but he gets his cool back on with his charismatic performance in Focus, one of the better movies about the art of the con in recent memory.
As a longtime and serious student of con artists  never as a participant, as far as you know Im kidding! Or am I?  Ill go ahead and boast I saw nearly every twist and turn coming around the corner. But that didnt spoil my appreciation for the clever screenplay by co-writers Glenn Ficarra and John Requa, who also teamed up for a nifty directing job with some gorgeous location shoots and some beautifully choreographed pickpocket scenes.
This is just sheer, escapist entertainment from start to finish.
Smith stars as Nicky, a third-generation con man whos been at it so long, not even Nicky is sure where the lies end and the truth begins. Nicky and his team including Adrian Martinez as Farhad, the obligatory comedic reliefsidekick who knows our antihero better than anyone else work big events such as the college bowl games, conventions and professional sports championships, where the hard-partying, flush-with-cash tourists make for easy marks.
Its thievery and its hard work. Nicky makes his living one wallet, one stolen credit card, one watch, one necklace at a time.
The beautiful Margot Robbie Leonardo DiCaprios wife in The Wolf of Wall Street is Jess, an inexperienced con who persuades Nicky to show him the ropes. Theres an instant chemistry between the two, but when you have a lifelong professional liar hooking up with an aspiring professional liar, every kiss is tinged with just a speck of doubt.
" data-medium-file"" data-large-file"" class"size-full wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comfoc-r.jpg?w'h" alt"Will Smith and Margot Robbie star as super-slick con artists in quot'Focus.quot'  Warner Bros." width"" height"" 
Smith and Robbie are terrific together. At various points along the way, hes playing her, and then shes playing him, and then were almost positive theyve let their collective guard down and theyre really in love 
Or are they?
Ficarra and Requa have the confidence and the talents as filmmakers to indulge in a couple of elaborate, elongated set pieces that are as much about establishing the truth about the main characters as they are about advancing the story. In one such scene, in the skybox of a Super Bowl-type football championship in New Orleans, Nicky gets mixed up in a rapidly escalating betting war with a thrill-seeking businessman BD Wong in a performance so good its a disappointment he doesnt have a bigger part. It starts off with a  prop bet on how many men will ogle a womans behind as she walks up the aisle. A few wagers later, theyre betting obscene amounts of money on such seemingly arbitrary outcomes such as whether or not a return man will take a knee in the end zone or try to run back the kick. Its a great scene, with a brilliant payoff.
Later the action switches to Buenos Aires, where a billionaire race car owner named Garriga Rodrigo Santoro enlists Nickys help in an elaborate con. Gerald McRaney has some priceless moments as Owens, a seriously dangerous enforcer who works for Garriga and has little regard for Nicky and for that matter for anyone of Nickys generation. Owens rant about Twitter and other social media is an instant classic.
As things get messier and more complicated, Focus strays from the plausible to only-in-the-movies. The big reveal at the end would have worked better if we havent seen variations on it in at least a half-dozen movies.
Still, Smith gives one of his best performances in years and, at , is arguably in the best shape since he played Muhammad Ali. Robbie is a sweet femme fatale, and the supporting players, most notably McRaney, Wong and Martinez, kill it.
I like this movies style.
