Pop quiz! Name a famous wrestler.
Odds are you thought of the Rock or Hulk Hogan or Stone Cold Steve Austin or John Cena. Theres no shortage of well-known professional wrestlers.
But if I asked you to name a famous amateur wrestler, i.e., a real wrestler, we might be here a while. The only time old-fashioned amateur grapplers enter the mainstream spotlight is during the Olympics  and even then, the sport almost never produces the kind of crossover superstars who emerge from gymnastics or swimming or figure skating.
Foxcatcher is a disturbing and memorable film about one of the richest men in America, and two Olympic wrestling champions who were snared in his creepy web. It is set in the s and it is based on a bizarre true story, and even if you know exactly what happens, when it does happen its shocking.
Channing Tatum gives one of his best performances as Mark Schultz, a simmering meathead who won gold at the  Olympics but is a misfit off the mat. Mark lives in a rundown apartment filled with trophies, including his gold medal, which he brings along when he makes appearances for all of  bucks a pop. He spends his days training and spends his nights hunched over his Ramen noodle dinners or playing a handheld video game. His life would have to improve to reach the level of depressing.
As good as Tatum is, hes physically an obvious choice to play a hulking wrestler of few words. The casting of the other two leads in Foxcatcher could have been disastrous, but turned out to be inspired.
Mark Ruffalo usually plays urban intellectual types, but hes a revelation as Marks older brother. Dave walks with the same simian gate as Mark, has the same slope-shouldered look, the same level of intensity on the wrestling mat  but he also has a life. Hes charismatic, he has a loving wife and two great kids, and hes much better suited to function in the real world.
Related: Bennett Miller's 'Foxcatcher' gets lots of Oscar buzz
Then theres an almost unrecognizable Steve Carell as John du Pont. Its not just the prosthetic nose and the uncanny duplication of du Ponts weird speech pattern and mannerisms. I say this based on documentary footage of du Pont Ive seen. Carell simply nails it. Its transformative work.
Du Pont is way beyond eccentric, in a land of his own. Hes a self-styled patriot with an odd, apparently homoerotic passion for wrestling. He recruits Mark to live on his Pennsylvania estate and train there  and to bring his teammates. For du Pont, its a pathetic and obvious attempt to please his icy mother Vanessa Redgrave, perfect in a small role and to forge the kind of male-bonding friendships he never had growing up. For Mark, its a chance to escape from the shadow of his older brother.
For a while Mark thrives under du Ponts tutelage. He and his teammates indulge du Pont  referring to him by one of his self-given nicknames, pretending to soak in his wisdom as he dispenses beginner-level wrestling advice  in exchange for the free room and board on the vast estate, the first-class training facilities, the private jet and all the other perks. Like the sycophants who flock to du Ponts estate to sell him weaponry or get him to sign this or that contract, they suck up to this oddball because he is wealthy and powerful. On the street, they wouldnt give him the time of day. Everybody knows that but nobody says it.
The dynamic between du Pont and Mark is a romance of sorts, though the film never suggests a physical relationship. At first Mark is dazzled' later, when things turn, they turn in harsh fashion. Ever protective of Mark, big brother Dave arrives on the scene  but hes not immune to DuPonts ways either. As the  Olympics approach, the tension on the estate is almost unbearable. Something awful looms.
Directed by Bennett Miller of Moneyball and Capote fame, Foxcatcher at times moves at a glacial pace. Each of Millers films has a calculated, meticulous style. Theyre almost mathematically precise  beautifully filmed, but almost cold to the touch. Even the infrequent comedic touches in Foxcatcher are of the rueful variety.
So much of this film is so dead-on. Miller clearly appreciates the athleticism of wrestling. The training and match sequences illustrate the ballet-like grace and the strategy of the sport. Its hardly just about brute strength. Its as much a chess match as anything.
Thanks in great part to Carells career-changing performance, theres something compelling about du Pont, even though hes clearly out there. We can see how he was able to lure someone in and smother Mark with a combination of kindness and manipulation.
And then pull the mat out from under him.
