Were deep into the conflict at the heart of Freeheld when Steve Carell comes barreling into the picture as a self-described big loud gay Jew who turns protest into performance art, calls everyone honey and sweetheart, and then reminds us again hes a big loud gay Jew.
Sometimes a scene-stealing comic relief performance is just what a tearjerker needs. Sometimes its indicative of the film itself in that its a little too one-sided and lacking in nuance.
Freeheld is a classic example of a well-made, well-acted film with the best of intentions  but a disappointingly heavy-handed method of delivering its message. Were left admiring the hell out of the real-life characters on which the movie was based, but also wishing this fictionalized version of their story wasnt so obvious about its mission.
RELATED: It's 'a beautiful love story,' says Julianne Moore
Inspired by Cynthia Wades Oscar-winning documentary short, Freeheld recounts the story of Laurel Hester, a decorated, -year veteran of the Ocean County, New Jersey, police department, who in the mid-s petitioned to leave her pension to her legal domestic partner, Stacie Andree.
Before the battle lines have been drawn, director Peter Sollett Raising Victor Vargas and screenwriter Ron Nyswaner Philadelphia lay a foundation made of two movies: one a standard-issue cop flick showing Hester Julianne Moore and her partner Dane Wells Michael Shannon busting drug dealers and working homicide cases in Ocean County' the other a meet-cute romance between Hester, who is firmly ensconced in the closet, and Stacie Ellen Page, a feisty mechanic with a chip on her shoulder.
Some of the courtship scenes are tender and funny' at least two ring false. A scene in which Stacie wins a mechanics job in a garage by taking on the local record-holder in a tire-rotation competition is just goofy.
It seems like Laurel and Stacie have just moved into their fixer-upper of a house, acquired a lovably oversized dog and settled into their domestic partnership when Laurel says she pulled a muscle  leading to a visit to the doctor, which leads to the dreaded phone call a few days later, which leads to a shocking diagnosis. Laurel is in the advanced stages of lung cancer, and she has less than a  percent chance of surviving.
Enter the struggle. Laurel wants her pension to go to Stacie so Stacie can keep the house where they built a life together. This leads to more than one unenlightened character delivering variations on the line, But those benefits are for married people!, as well as a number of scenes in which five white male county commissioners find it increasingly difficult to explain why a heterosexual spouse can receive a deceased spouses full pension, while the loving partner of a dedicated police detective has no rights.
The county commissioners are officially known as Freeholders. Symbolism noted, as theyre clearly withholding freedom from some.
Theres a lot of talk about the century-plus history of the Freeholders, and the staunch conservative voting base in the county, and how these men would be committing political suicide and in some cases betraying their religious beliefs by voting in favor of Stacie receiving the benefits  which in fact they have the right to do.
How could I face my family and friends? What would I say to them? wails one Bill Johnson Tom McGowan, the most conservative member of the group he wears a tiny crucifix pin on his lapel. Meanwhile, the most sympathetic of the five council members Josh Charles has dinner with his daughter, who dreams of becoming a police detective just like Laurel and is horrified by her fathers reluctance to take a stand. Hmmm, wonder if hell see the light.
As the political battle heats up and Carells Steven Goldstein buses in protesters and courts the media, the relationship between Laurel and Stacie takes a back seat. Laurels cop partner Dane urges his colleagues  including a closeted gay cop and a homophobic moron who calls Laurel the dyke  to join him in supporting her. At some point it appears as if the cops are no longer working any cases' theyre too busy debating this issue.
Michael Shannon plays one of the more sympathetic characters of his career in Dane, who will do anything for Laurel because he knows shed do the same if their situations were reversed. Moore sports a Farrah Fawcett Charlies Angels hairdo and lays on the Jersey accent to the point of distraction, but shes her usual excellent self, whether shes awkwardly allowing Stacie into her life or struggling to catch enough breath to utter a single sentence. Ellen Page is playing a flannel-wearing mechanic who loves to ride motorcycles and Stacie isnt the most richly layered of characters, but the performance is steady.
Of course Freeheld is timely. It would be interesting to hear what the likes of Mike Huckabee and a certain county clerk in Kentucky would have to say about this film  though I guess we already know theyd say its an elite liberal Hollywood glorification of gay sinners who wanted to destroy the sanctity of real marriage.
Its just a shame Freeheld couldnt state its case without STATING ITS CASE so often.
