Its been  years and a jaw-dropping . billion in worldwide box office since The Fast and the Furious debuted in the summer of , with the live-action cartoon movie factor revved up from film to film, to the point where the cars in Furious  perform feats the cars in Cars couldnt even do, and the humans brush off collisions and crashes that would put Spider-Man on the disabled list.
This is one of the most ridiculous thrillers Ive ever seen, and yet even with a running time that stretched well beyond two hours, with so many repetitive moments I almost began to wonder if I had missed something and the movie had started again, I have to admit I was entertained by the sheer audacity of the car chases and battle sequences  and there were even some genuinely touching moments, especially a kind of movie-within-the-movie tribute to the late Paul Walker and his friendship with Vin Diesel.
Director James Wan Saw, Insidious doesnt have quite the flair of Justin Lin, who helmed fourof the Furious films, but Wan leads the league in pure, um, guts, when it comes to daring us not to laugh at the sheer insanity of staging elaborate auto stunts not only on city streets and on perilous roads high in the mountains, but in high-rise penthouses and at altitudes of , feet.
I lost count of how many times Diesels Dom found himself at the wheel of a car hurtling through the air, whether it had been dropped from an airplane or had literally run off a cliff.
More often than not, Dom kept steering. Just in case that might work, I supposed.
The plot, if you must know, goes something like this, and please bear with me if you havent seen all of the entries in the franchise  or, if like me, you HAVE seen all of them, and youre still sometimes confused by some inconsistencies in the timeline.
Whenever a franchise is in search of a new villain, the old Im avenging my brother trick comes in handy. See: Gruber, Simon Peter, Die Hard . Jason Stathams Deckard Shaw is a former British black-ops assassin turned rogue maniac psychopathic ghost who plans to hunt down Dom and every member of his crew in retaliation for them messing up his nasty little brother.
After Shaw dukes it out with Dwayne The Rock Johnsons Agent Hobbs in a knockdown, drag-out battle that leaves Hobbs in the hospital, Hobbs calls on his old friend Dom to get the band back together and track down Shaw.
In order to expand the action beyond the streets of Los Angeles, director Wan and screenwriter Chris Morgan have fashioned an overly complex tale involving a dapper U.S. government operative Kurt Russell, in a juicy and fun performance' a gorgeous and brilliant British hacker named Ramsey Nathalie Emmanuel, who has created a program called Gods Eye which enables the owner to keep track of everyone, everywhere, all the time, and a bloodthirsty villain named Jakande Djimon Hounsou, who seems to have a small army at his disposal no matter what country hes in.
The most audacious sequence takes place in the penthouse belonging to a billionaire Middle Eastern prince in Abu Dhabi. Dom and Brian wheel the princes . million sports car through the princes lavish party, through the window, into another tower, and then into ANOTHER tower.
And thats only the third or fourth goofiest sequence in the film.
Statham makes for a formidable villain, though he disappears from the film for long stretches. Michelle Rodriguez, Ludacris, Tyrese Gibson and Jordana Brewster all return, with each having a nice moment or two during some of the rare quiet stretches. Theres something likable about this ragtag bunch that keeps referring to the importance of family, even as they jones for the thrill of another adventure.
Walker reportedly had filmed about  percent of his role at the time of his death. His scenes were completed with the help of his brothers acting as stand-ins for medium and long shots, and some CGI trickery. There were one or two shots when I was fairly sure I was seeing the latter, and it was a little bit jarring.
Walker was killed when the Porsche his friend was driving ran into a concrete lamppost and two trees in Venice, Calif., in a horrific case of real life reminding us that unlike in the movies, one doesnt often walk away and just dust oneself off after high-speed impact crashes. Furious  could have come across as ghoulish, but its not until the very end that were reminded of Walkers fate, and the filmmakers handle it with taste and respect.
 Furious  takes place immediately after the events of Tokyo Drift, which was the third film in the franchise. The fourth, fifth and sixth movies take place chronologically between  Fast  Furious and Drift. When Drift was made in , it was set in , and the technology reflected that. Now we have Furious , which is set right after the events of Drift, but its also set in , with all the cutting-edge technology that implies. Headache!
