F
rom its juvenile double entendre title to its fascination with prison rape and homophobic humor, Get Hard practically announces itself as an offensive, tired and unimaginative comedy in nearly every scene.
And yet I didnt hate it because Will Ferrell and Kevin Hart had such terrific comedic chemistry. One can only hope they find a better vehicle if they decide to pair up again.
Just about any vehicle would drive better than this clunker.
It almost defies belief that in , were still getting comedies that rely so heavily on racial and gay stereotypes, not to mention an endless barrage of jokes about what happens to men who go to prison.
They get raped. Isnt that hilarious?
Other than the myriad screenwriters who have beaten that joke to death and hack comedians wondering why they cant get past Open Mic Night in some dungeon of a comedy club, does anybody feel the world needs more prison rape humor?
We get a lot of it Get Hard. And none of it is funny.
Ferrell is in prime dimwit blowhard mode as James King, a wealthy financial analyst who lives in a mansion in Bel Air, is engaged to the beautiful Alissa Alison Brie and has just been made partner at his firm by its founder, Martin Craig T. Nelson, who is Alissas father. The world is his oyster.
But though were talking about a dopey comedy here, Get Hard doesnt even try to disguise the true nature of Alissa and Martin. Theyre caricatures. We discern their true motives  seconds after they first appear onscreen.
As for James, hes supposedly this financial genius  but hes such a moron outside the office, we dont believe this guy can balance a checkbook, let alone make multi-million-dollar deals every day. Animated characters have more depth. This guys in his s, and hes so clueless its a miracle he can find his way to the office every morning.
Another problem: James is a flat-out racist. Thats basically the set-up of this movie.
Kevin Hart plays Darnell, the hardworking and ambitious operator of a local car wash. Darnell lives in Crenshaw with his strong and supportive wife Rita Edwina Findley Dickerson and his kind and smart daughter Makayla Ariana Neal. Darnell has dreams of getting his family out of the neighborhood and his daughter into a better school.
After James is convicted of fraud and sentenced to  years hard time in San Quentin, he turns to the only black man he knows: Darnell, who washes his car. Darnells black, so James assumes Darnell has been in prison. If Darnell can teach James how to get hard so James wont  you guessed it  get raped in prison, James will pay Darnell ,.
And away we go.
Darnell turns James home into a makeshift prison, with the various minorities who work for James portraying prison guards and other inmates. He brings James into the inner circle of the Crenshaw Kings, a murderous gang run by his cousin Russell T.I., which gives Get Hard an excuse to explore racial stereotypes for laughs. James idea to fit in with the Kings: blackface. Mercifully, Get Hard doesnt actually go there, instead opting to have James dress in the same style as Lil Wayne.
When all else fails, you play the Straight Guys Repulsed by Homosexuality card. Convinced the only way James can survive in prison is to perform sexual acts on other inmates, James and Darnell frequent a popular brunch spot for gays  and soon James is in a bathroom stall, trying to work up the courage to do the deed.
Every once in a while, Get Hard produces a big laugh, almost in spite of itself. The best moments come when theres an attempt at turning Darnell and James into real characters, e.g., a silly but sweet dinner scene at Darnells house. And I have to admit I laughed at some of the slapstick fight scenes, with Ferrell and Hart and their stunt doubles giving it  percent in the name of getting stupid laughs.
Those were isolated moments in a sea of cheap jokes.
Hey. You know what happens in prison? Hold on, this is a real knee-slapper
