nbsp'
Just about every scene in Ghost in the Shell is a visual wonder to behold  and youll have ample time to soak in all that background eye candy, because the plot machinations and the action in the foreground are largely of the ho-hum retread variety.
This is the kind of movie where the villain tells the heroine, We are the same, and of course the heroine says theyre not alike, not at all. How many times have you heard that particular bit of repartee?
To be sure, director Rupert Sanders Snow White and the Huntsman delivers a beautiful film, from the Blade Runner-esque overhead shots of an unnamed Asian city of the future, to the colorfully appointed characters lurking in nearly every rain-soaked corner, to the holographic creations dominating the landscape, to some jaw-dropping POV angles, to some fantastically crazy human-robot melding reminiscent of the HBO series Westworld.
In one fleeting shot, a main character is riding in the back of a car with an assistant, who is typing away on a laptop. The assistant has about  mechanical fingers jutting out from each wrist. She would be an AMAZING court reporter.
Based on the manga series by Masumune Shirow as well as Mamoru Oshiis beloved  Japanimation, this version of Ghost in the Shell generated loads of controversy before it generated dollar one at the box office, due to the casting of Scarlett Johansson as the title character, who of course was Japanese in the source materials.
Heres the thing, though, and this is a SPOILER moment only if you want to know absolutely nothing about the premise of this franchise:
The character of Major has a completely synthetic outer shell, from head to toe. Her brain, her soul, her ghost are intact inside that shell  but when we see Major, were seeing a robot exterior encasing the mind and the brain and the memories of a human being who might or might not be of Asian descent. Perhaps the Caucasian forces behind Majors transformation have made her a Caucasian because they believe thats what a super soldier should look like. Perhaps this movie is making a social and political statement.
Or maybe the backers just wanted Scarlett Johansson in the lead because shes the most bankable female star in the world  the only woman in the worldwide Top  in recent rankings.
My favorite performances by Johansson are in smaller, quirkier films such as Lost as Translation and Match Point and Under the Skin, but she has become a huge action star thanks to the Avengers movies and Lucy, and shes in full badass mode here.
In the effective and intriguing opening sequences, we learn Majors backstory. After a terrorist attack left Majors parents dead and broke her body beyond repair, shes chosen for an experimental counter-terrorism program funded by the all-powerful Hanka Corp., in which her brain is lifted into a virtually un-killable cyborg body.
Cue the action sequences, which are filled with Matrix-like slo-mo, a seemingly endless variety of shots featuring broken glass or shimmering, splashing waves of water and some wonderfully chilling scenes of enhanced humans losing their technologically advanced eyes or limbs.
Major and her take-no-prisoners, fiercely loyal partner Batou Pilou Asbaek, who co-starred with Johansson in Lucy, are on the hunt for a hacker-villain named Kuze Michael Pitt, who has been systematically eliminating the doctors and scientists that helped create Major  and has the ability to get inside Majors mind.
Juliette Binoche, looking as if she wandered onto the set of Ghost in the Shell from a classy French romantic comedy and isnt sure why shes even there, plays Majors supervisor and mother figure, who is torn between the quest for scientific breakthrough and her genuine affection for Major. Peter Ferdinando as the cruel and nefarious leader of the Hanka Corp. does a serviceable job playing a forgettable villain. Takeshi Kitano, playing a security chief whodares stand up to Hanka, casually owns every scene hes in.
Ghost in the Shell loses its footing in later sequences, as Major discovers the real truth about her origins and acts accordingly. We see that coming a mile away.
The last few minutes of the film are the least inspired, most clichd, least creative moments of the entire journey.
Wrong direction.
nbsp'
