So bad.
Ghostbusters is a horror from start to finish, and thats not me saying its legitimately scary.
More like I was horrified by what was transpiring onscreen.
How could so many talented, well-meaning artists, who clearly loved and respected the original, produce such a raggedy-looking, thuddingly unfunny, utterly unnecessary reboot?
For months, controversy has swirled around the new Ghostbusters movie. The trailer was reportedly the most hated in YouTube history, for what thats worth or not worth, which led to some pundits saying some of that hate was rooted in sexism.
Others said the fact the Leslie Jones character wasnt a scientist and seemed to have a role that called for her to play into stereotypes smacked of racism.
Of course, people were voicing these opinions without having seen the entire movie. Well, I have seen it  and while I believe the concerns about racial stereotypes were overblown, Ghostbusters is one of the worst movies of the year for multiple other reasons, including:
Bad acting.
Uninspired directing, editing, cinematography and music.
Cheesy special effects.
A forgettable villain.
A terrible script.
.Later in this review, I WILL be discussing the nature of the cameos by some of the cast members from the original Ghostbusters. Youve been warned.
The  edition of Ghostbusters is not a sequel or a remake per se. While there are multiple visual and musical nods to the  classic to the point of distraction, this is a stand-alone disaster. One indication this story takes place in the same universe occupied by the original Ghostbusters: We catch a glimpse of a bust of the late great Harold Ramis Egon Spengler character.
In present-day New York City, Kristen Wiigs Erin is an uptight academic trying to distance herself from her college days when she and her best friend Abby Melissa McCarthy published a book claiming ghosts were real. Erin and Abby are estranged  but theyre reunited via plot device when honest-to-ghostness apparitions surface in New York, creating all sorts of evil mischief.
Is this review sexist? Roeper responds to the social media backlash
Real-life ghostly moments for Melissa McCarthy, Leslie Jones
Wiig and McCarthy co-starred in Bridesmaids directed by the usually terrific Paul Feig, who is at the helm here and theyre enormously charismatic and versatile screen actors  which makes it all the more disappointing to see them flounder separately and together here. Theyre both surprisingly muted and flat.
Then again, better understated than insanely over-the-top, which is what we get from Kate McKinnon as Holtzmann, the wacky scientist of the bunch. McKinnon is so good on Saturday Night Live, but she absolutely butchers her performance in this film  mugging for the camera, bouncing around in an exaggerated manner as if shes in a Three Stooges short, and drawing attention to herself even when a scene calls for her to react and not engage in wholesale attention-getting thievery.
Jones is loud and unsubtle as an MTA worker named Patty who becomes the fourth Ghostbuster, but Im not sure theres a way to deliver lines such as, Aw, hell naw! without going big.
Theres very little chemistry between any combination of the four Ghostbusters, who spend a lot of time strategizing about their next move and then saying Woohoo! when they hit the streets.
ChrisHemsworth further drags down the proceedings as their receptionist, Kevin, whos monumentally stupid  but also narcissistic and annoying. Hemsworth tries too hard to be funny, instead of creating a legitimately funny character. It doesnt help matters that Wiigs Erin is so smitten with this dope she can barely think straight around him.
As for those wildly hyped cameos by original Ghostbusters cast members Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd, Ernie Hudson and Annie Potts  and once again, SPOILER ALERT! They dont play older versions of their characters. Theyre just wedged into the story as irrelevant, plot-stopping cameos. Dan Aykroyd saying I aint afraid of no ghosts isnt a clever homage to the original' its a self-conscious and cloying wink that serves no real purpose.
The special effects in Ghostbusters are so mediocre Im wondering if they'rea nod to the relatively crude effects of . Or maybe theyre just not very good. The ghosts arent frightening and theyre not funny and they have almost no backstory' theyre just hissing, hateful, murderous creatures storming through the city.
Neil Casey plays the movies main villain, a creepy hotel janitor named Rowan. Hes one of the most forgettable villains of any movie Ive ever seen. Im already forgetting his name as I finish this paragraph.
Andy Garcia does what he can with this role as the mayor of New York, who is in deep denial about the whole ghost thing. Its a pale imitation of William Athertons fantastic work as Walter Peck, the EPA official who tried to shut down the Ghostbusters in the  film.
From multiple visual references to the iconic logo to a new take on the catchy Ray Parker Jr. by way of Huey Lewis theme song to the appearance of some very familiar ghosts to the aforementioned cameos, Ghostbusters keeps telling us: Yes, we know were revisiting a classic.
Some things are better left alone.
