Sometimes you love a movie even as you realize its far from perfect.
Thats what Im here to tell ya. I loved Gifted even though I realize its far from perfect.
Yes, the screenplay creates a Big Ongoing Courtroom Conflict that could have been more readily resolved a half-dozen other ways.
Yes, the tear-soaked drama often crosses the line into unabashed, old-timey movie sentimentality.
And yes, any film with a lovable, one-eyed cat named Fred that winds up on Death Row at one point isnt exactly being subtle about grabbing for your heart.
I wasnt much bothered by any of that, because I cared so much about the characters, and I wanted things to work out for them, and maybe youll feel the same way after you see Gifted. Go see Gifted.
Chris Evans is of course best known for playing Steve RogersCaptain America and hes quite capable in that role, but Evans has the opportunity to flex different sets of acting muscles as Frank Adler in Gifted, and the result is maybe the best work hes ever done. Evans also gets to flex his actual muscles, as the Florida coastal locale of the story and his job as a boat mechanic afford plenty of opportunity for that.
Frank acts like a crabby old man in a young mans shell as he keeps his head down and tries to keep his interactions with the outside world to a bare minimum, but we know from the get-go this guys heart is in the right place.
Frank has had custody of his -year-old niece Mary McKenna Grace ever since Marys mother committed suicide when the girl was an infant. Even with their modest circumstances and Franks make-it-up-as-you-go-along approach to guardianship, they seem to be doing just fine on their own  until the time comes for Mary to get on the school bus and start the first grade.
This is the thing about Mary. Shes a mathematical genius, a one in a billion prodigy. On the first day of class, it takes about five minutes for Marys teacher Bonnie Jenny Slate to realize this kid should NOT be wasting her time adding two plus two.
This sets in motion a chain of events that includes the schools principal Elizabeth Marvel offering to place Mary in an ultra-expensive school for gifted children  and the arrival from Boston of Franks estranged mother Evelyn Lindsay Duncan, a wealthy, domineering presence who would have to warm up to have ice water in her veins.
Evelyn, a onetime math prodigy herself who was obsessed with pushing her daughter to greatness, has learned of her granddaughters prowess, which suddenly makes the child interesting to Evelyn. She swoops into town, meets Mary for the first time, gives Mary an Apple Macbook loaded with math texts, and announces she will be taking custody of the child. See you in court, son!
The screenplay by Tom Flynn is filled with sharp dialogue and warm, funny vignettes, but also some pretty big leaps of credibility, especially in the increasingly escalating emotions of the courtroom battle. Evelyn has a scene on the witness stand thats the cold-hearted mothers version of Jack Nicholsons self-destructive diatribe in A Few Good Men. Its an amazing piece of acting from Lindsay Duncan, but its so theatrical youll feel as if you just walked into a Broadway play.
Octavia Spencer supplies heart and humor as Roberta, the property managernext-door neighbor who is always using her master key to enter Franks place and meddle in his life. Frank pretends to be annoyed by this, but he is eternally grateful to have Roberta in his life  and more important, in Marys life. And Jenny Slate gives a wonderfully modulated, sympathetic performance as Bonnie the schoolteacher, who tells Frank theres no way they get involved, ahem.
In a role that requires much math talk and even more serious emoting, McKenna Grace is an irresistible force. Evans and Grace are sensational in their scenes together, whether its low-key bantering about the nature of her morning breakfast to waterworks-inducing separations and reunions.
Gifted isnt the best or most sophisticated or most original film of the year so far  but it just might be my favorite.
