Yawn Girl.
The hope was The Girl on the Train would be this years version of Gone Girl  a lurid and occasionally credulity-defying but immensely entertaining and satisfying thriller based on a best-selling page-turner.
Not even in the same bloody ballpark.
Tate Taylors adaptation of Paula Hawkins compulsively readable psychological murder mystery fails to match David Finchers interpretation of the Gillian Flynn thriller on every level.
Its shiny trash that begins with promise but quickly gets tripped up by its own screenplay and grows increasingly ludicrous and melodramatic, to the point where I was barely able to suppress a chuckle at some of the final scenes.
And this is no comedy.
Not that The Girl on the Train strays far from the source material although the locale has been moved from the UK to New York state. But sometimes what works quite effectively on the printed andor downloaded page has one rolling ones eyes at the stupidity of a number of main characters and the convenient plot twists you should be able to see coming around the bend like a commuter train. And Ill bet thatll be the case even for viewers that havent read the book.
Emily Blunt gives a fine performance in a role that requires her to be inebriated, blackout drunk, reeling from a massive hangover, shedding tears, throwing a fit, engaging in obsessive stalking  or some combination of the aforementioned. Its exhausting just watching her. The Girl on the Train could really use one of those Sleeper Cars.
Blunts Rachel is an emotionally scarred alcoholic in full free-fall some two years after her husband Tom Justin Theroux had an affair with their real estate agent, a beautiful young blonde named Anna Rebecca Ferguson' dumped Rachel' married Anna' moved Anna into the home Rachel decorated  and had a baby with Anna.
So to sum up: bad couple of years for Rachel.
Every morning and every night, Rachel takes the train to and from the city, a train that zips by so close to Rachels former neighborhood, she can catch glimpses of her ex-husband and his new wife and their baby through the windows.
Rachels equally fixated on a house just a couple of doors down, where she sees ANOTHER beautiful young blonde, Megan Haley Bennett, and her gorgeous hunk of a husband Scott Luke Evans, who seem to be living the perfect life  reminding Rachel of her marriage to Tom before things went so sour.
By the way: Megan is Annas nanny.
In the immortal words of the Eagles in Life in the Fast Lane, are you with me so far?
The screenplay by Erin Cressida Wilson flashes back six months, four months, two months, a few days ago, with intermittent stops in the present, and switches viewpoints from Rachel to Megan to Anna  though Rachels story remains firmly at the core of everything.
We learn one dark secret after another about each of the women, and the men in their lives, and how just about everyone is living some version of a lie and their lives are entangled in a sleazy pile of twisted, sometimes sadistic and eventually violent behavior.
Blunts Rachel is a complex, terribly sad, deeply troubled woman, ravaged by her disease, drowning due to her own actions, but fighting to the very end to get to the truth and to find salvation along the way.
Justin Theroux as Rachels ex, Luke Evans as Megans husband and Edgar Ramirez as one of the worst therapists in modern screen history  all fine actors, but theyre stuck playing characters with little nuance.
Haley Bennetts Megan is a tragic character, and when we learn the full, horrific reason why, Bennett delivers with a stunning monologue. Rebecca Fergusons Anna is window dressing until its time for her to make some key decisions  and her actions are ridiculous. Im not sure a young Meryl Streep could have made this role sing.
And then theres Allison Janneys detective, whose primary purpose seems to be to taunt Rachel and to violate so many basic rules of police investigation her superiors would be arresting HER by the end of this movie. Its not a bad performance, but its a terrible, laughable role.
The same could be said for the big confrontation when All is Revealed  and the Epilogue, which tries to make some kind of female bonding statement about Rachel, Anna and Megan.
No sale.
