One, two, three, four, five, six  Im going through the roster of characters in Gone Girl, and Im up to a half-dozen characters who at one point do something that makes you want to scream You IDIOT! at the screen.
Seven. Make that seven. Which is also the title of one of director David Finchers earlier films. To be precise: it was stylized as Seen. The enormously talented Fincher is the meticulous stylist who also directed Fight Club, Panic Room, Zodiac, The Social Network and the Americanized version of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, and I liked all of those films more than I liked Gone Girl, but Im still recommending this film because it has some wildly entertaining twists and because it features one of Ben Afflecks best performances.
This is a nutty film, and for the most part I mean that in a good way. Based on Gillian Flynns hugely popular novel of the same name and adapted by Flynn for the big screen, Gone Girl is a keen look at the media frenzy that occurs around heater criminal cases, a melancholy examination of a storybook romance that crashes and a mystery that takes a crazy turn, and then a crazier turn, and then 
Well. If youve read the book you know. If you havent, Ill do my best not to spoil it here.
Rosamund Pike, not my favorite actress what with the wide-eyed expressions and the sometimes monotone line readings, steps up here and delivers a fine performance as Amy Dunne, a magazine writer whos famous not for her work but because shes Amazing Amy, the inspiration for a series of books written by her parents.
Ben Affleck is perfectly cast as Amys husband, Nick Dunne, himself a writer with a middling career. Nicks a big, handsome, charming guy whos just a little too self-aware of that charm, and a little too quick to latch onto Amy, who is beautiful and seemingly sweet and oh by the way has about a million bucks in a trust fund.
 Gone Girl writer Gillian Flynn concerned about my own sickness
Ben Affleck breaks with the 'Gone Girl' vision of marriage
Fincher tells the story of Nick and Amys courtship as a New York City fairy tale, complete with a kiss in a sugar storm as a bakery truck is unloaded. Its gorgeously photographed, and it feels more like the end of a well-made romance than the beginning of something much more sinister.
Five years later, Nick and Amy are living in the financially depressed town of North Carthage, Missouri, where Nick runs a bar called The Bar, where his twin sister Margo Carrie Coon from HBOs The Leftovers is always ready with a drink and quip.
Margo is cute and funny and smart, and she adores Nick, to point where its creepy. When she finds out Nicks been keeping secrets from her, she acts more like a spurned lover than a concerned sibling. Its a tribute to Coons performance that Go is the most likable character in the film  though she does have her YOU IDIOT! moment, as do Nick and Amy, as well as a number of police investigators, the hotshot attorney played by Tyler Perry and Amys two ex-boyfriends.
Ah, but were getting ahead of ourselves. On Nick and Amys fifth wedding anniversary, Amy goes missing and Nick is immediately the prime suspect. Kim Dickens is Detective Rhonda Boney, whos suspicious about her initial suspicions, while Patrick Fugit remember him as the kid in Almost Famous? is ready to arrest Nick and start counting the days until hes executed by lethal injection.
Gone Girl bounces back and forth from the investigation and the attendant media circus Missi Pyle is a dead-on hoot as a Nancy Grace-type TV show host to flashback scenes, with Amy narrating diary entries in which she describes the dissolution of the fairy tale. One day Nick is like a modern-day prince in the city' the next thing you know, hes slouched on a sofa in Missouri, unemployed, drinking beer, playing video games and verbally and physically abusing Amy.
Oh yeah, and hes also having a fling with a former student Emily Ratajkowski aka Miss Blurred Lines about half his age.
Theres so much more squeezed into the -minute running time, including Neil Patrick Harris as Desi Collings, who worshipped Amy when they were dating and still has a stalkeresque obsession with her some  years later. Desi is fabulously wealthy, but hes the biggest nitwit in this story. Some of the scenes at Desis lake house defy even the lurid pulp logic of this material.
Other subplots are like miniature film noirs unto themselves. I loved Lola Kirkes performance as a chain-smoking, world-weary hottie living in a motel with a crummy pool and questionable clientele.
Nick is the first to admit hes not a good man, but for a long time were kept guessing as to whether hes a mostly amiable dupe or a cold killer. From Affleck we see glimpses of vulnerability as well as displays of a fiery temper.
Some scenes are filmed in tones so gray you can feel the weight of lifes disappointments suffocating Nick and Amy. And even when its a sunny day, the yellows and reds on Finchers palette seem a bit overwhelming. The score from Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross is nomination-worthy. The editing, with so many twists and turns and so many supporting characters needing their due, is without hiccups. And thankfully, theres plenty of dark humor. 
This story cannot be taken too seriously. Its filled with bad people who sometimes pull off brilliant stunts  and then follow a stunt with an act of blatant stupidity. But its a thing of beauty watching them manipulate, stumble, recover, stumble again, and then 
More madness.
