We get all these movies about future battles and wars, with speculation about the amazing and often morally ambiguous ways in which technology will alter the landscape, but with Good Kill were reminded theres some startling, stop-you-in-your-tracks stuff going on right now.
Set in , Good Kill is fiction based on the reality of todays warfare. Ethan Hawke is Air Force Major Tom Egan, who spends his day in tight quarters with colleagues as they fight the war on terror via drone strikes.
Under the watchful, unwavering eye of their commander, Lt. Colonel Jack Johns a perfectly cast Bruce Greenwood, Tom and his crew home in on Taliban compounds and sometimes individual terrorists, waiting until just the right moment to pull the trigger  that is, push a button  and just like that, theres a flash of fire, and the team waits for the smoke to clear so they can do a body count.
Good kill, says Johns, as matter-of-factly as an accounting supervisor would tell everyone in the office they had a solid day crunching numbers.
Sometimes the team gets the order to do a follow-up  a benign term for launching a second strike on the same spot, just as people are arriving on the scene to sort through the carnage and search for survivors. From a drones-eye view, its virtually impossible to know if that second wave is another group of enemy combatants, or if it includes civilians just trying to help.
When Tom emerges from the dark, air-conditioned metal box where he puts in those -hour shifts, he whips on his sunglasses and faces a blazing hot day. And then he gets in his muscle car and he drives home, right past the Las Vegas Strip, so he can enjoy a barbecue with the wife and kids.
Hes fighting the Taliban via remote control.
Written and directed by Andrew Niccol who teamed with Hawke for Gattaca some  years ago, Good Kill is never subtle and occasionally veers into implausibility. At times military operatives and their superiors engage in debates more suitable for Crossfire than a crucial moment of battle, and you can feel the weight of the script infringing on the authenticity of the moment.
But the visuals pack a visceral punch. Every time Tom zeroes in on a target, every time he pushes that button, what we see on those monitors is brutally authentic.
Whats that woman doing? asks a superior officer in the aftermath of one strike.
I believe shes removing an arm from a tree, is the response from one of the crew.
Greenwoods commanding officer drops the f-word every other sentence and barks corny one-liners at his team, e.g., Ive got food in my refrigerator thats older than most of you, but hes refreshingly candid with the crew, telling them this isnt a video game, and theyre shooting real flesh and blood, not pixels. He also admits it sometimes feels as if theyve got no skin in the game because theyre not in the actual country where the war is taking place. Like Tom, he feels like a coward every day because theyre able to execute the kill with zero risk, zero risk of retaliation.
As Tom puts it, Why do we wear uniforms?
Hawke delivers a superb, intense performance as a veteran pilot who did six tours of duty and is faced with the prospect of never actually flying again. His neighbor says its gotta be great to be able to do his job and not be away from the family for months at a time  but Tom might as well be overseas, for all the attention he pays to his family.
January Jones does what she can with the obligatory role of the devoted military wife who pleads with her husband to talk to her about his work, to be in the moment, to stop staring up at the skies. Zoe Kravitz and Jake Abel are solid as the supporting characters who serve as talking points  Kravitz playing the voice of conscience, who openly questions whether theyre committing war crimes, and Abel as the gung-ho fighter who reminds them theyre killing terrorists, and if those terrorists put women and children at risk, thats on them.
Its amazing what those drones can do. Scary too.
