You wore me out, guys.
Directed with pounding intensity by the talented brothers Josh and Benny Safdie and featuring an impressively uncompromising performance by Robert Pattinson, Good Time is a hallucinatory and often gripping one-night stand of mishaps, mayhem and madness.
Ultimately, though, the sometimes clever story runs out of steam and limps across the finish line, and the in-your-face characters and camerawork, not to mention the in-your-ears score, left me not all that involved and a bit exhausted.
I have little doubt the Safdie brothers have a great movie in them. This is their third feature, after Daddy Longlegs and Heaven Knows What.. They are undeniably skilled, and they certainly have no qualms about taking chances and challenging the audience.
But for all its merits, Good Time feels more like a bridge to greatness than stand-alone dazzling work.
Just about every character in Good Time is stupid or loathsome or corrupt or unlikable to the core  and in the case of Pattinsons Connie Nikas, hes all those things and less.
Of course its possible to make a compelling film about a morally bankrupt and recklessly violent criminal sociopath, but Connie is such a small-time loser, and he is so repulsive in his brutal treatment of decent human beings an alarming number of whom are women andor minorities, that unlike, say, the Al Pacino character in Dog Day Afternoon or the bank robbers in Heat to name just a couple of far superior heist films, its nearly impossible to feel any empathy for this guy.
Connie has no regard for any human being other than himself and his mentally challenged brother Nick played, quite well, by Benny Safdie.. And it could be argued Connie doesnt even really care about Nick, given how Connie continually puts his brother in jeopardy.
After a disturbingly effective opening sequence in which a psychologist questions an increasingly uncomfortable and heartbreakingly simple Nick, the Nikas brothers rob a bank and somehow manage to get away with the money  but things go sour almost immediately, with the marked bills exploding in their faces and the police in hot pursuit.
This sets off a chain of bizarre and occasionally wickedly funny events, all transpiring over the course of one long night and early morning.
We meet Connies girlfriend of sorts Corey Jennifer Jason Leigh, a shrill idiot who agrees to help Connie bail out his brother, on the thin promise Connie will take her on a vacation. The subplot with the girlfriend doesnt really go anywhere. When Jennifer Jason Leigh essentially disappears from the story, we envy her.
Connie falls in with Ray Buddy Duress, a recently paroled scumbag who is so dull-witted he makes Connie look like a criminal mastermind. Their misadventures together include a soda bottle filled with LSD, an ill-conceived break-in at an amusement park and a nasty attack dog. Some of it funny, some of it tedious.
New York Times has pointed out  and I agree  theres also an ugly racial dimension and I would add xenophobia to Connies actions.
When Connie and Nick rob the bank, they sport facial masks with exaggerated African-American features. Why?
Connie takes advantage of an immigrant black woman Gladys Mathon and seduces her granddaughter Taliah Lennice Webster, who is said to be a teenager but looks much younger.
And in a scene when a black security guard Barkhad Abdi with an accent confronts Connie, the violent reaction from Connie is so over the top, so vicious, its difficult not to question if Connie is a racist on top of everything else.
Perhaps the Safdie brothers were trying to make a point about how even someone as repugnant as Connie can get away with a lot, simply because hes Caucasian and handsome.
Perhaps they were exposing their own anti-hero and hoping wed see him for the scumbag he truly is.
Perhaps perhaps. Whatever the intentions of the filmmakers, Good Time is a promising but flawed final product.
