The trailer for Gun Shy tells us the movie is directed by Simon West, who has given us Con Air, The Expendables  and Lara Croft: Tomb Raider.
Depending on whether you like bombastic, action-packed thrillers populated by colorful characters wisecracking their way through ludicrous plots as the gratuitous violence flies about in all directions, youll either take that as an enticement to see Gun Shy  or a warning to stay far away.
In this case, might I recommend the latter option?
Although directed with some degree of style and possessing a manic personality that keeps one watching long after one has stopped caring about the stupid plot machinations, Gun Shy is a loud bang signifying nothing, a tired and second-rate actioner  and an embarrassing resume entry for the likes of Antonio Banderas Desperado, Once Upon a Time in Mexico and Olga Kurylenko Oblivion, Quantum of Solace.
Kurylenko delivers forgettable work in a forgettable role. Banderas, on the other hand, opted to GO BIG OR GO HOME, and the nicest thing I can say about that is he would have been better off going home.
Sporting oversized bandanas, a ridiculous wig seemingly plucked at random from the wardrobe department and hippie-dippie garb that makes him look like a medicinal marijuana vendor, Banderas plays one Turk Henry pronounced en-REE, a once-dominant metal rocker with albums such as Metal Assassin and singles such as Teenage 
Well. I neither can nor desire to tell you the full title of that song.
Turk is now well past his prime but still hanging onto all the trappings and privileges that come with rock stardom. Faux black-and-white photos and video music clips from Turks glory days purporting to show him in his prime do NOT convince us this guy was ever a huge star. Sure, theres supposed to be a little bit of a Spinal Tap vibe here  the titles of Turks hit songs and albums are obviously intended for laughs  but Turks music is neither catchy nor funny. Kurylenko plays Turks wife Sheila, a former supermodel who is called his Yoko Ono. Ha. Ha.
While on vacation in Chile, Sheila is kidnapped by a hapless band of thugs who demand a ransom of one million dollars. Through a variety of convoluted circumstances, its ultimately up to the narcissistic, perpetual adolescent Turk, who can scarcely get dressed in the morning without help, to ensure his wifes safe return.
Turk gets ahold of a million dollars, not that he can count to a million. The main reason I became a musician is we only have to count to four. In the meantime, Sheila develops a bond of sorts with her captor.
All sorts of setbacks and wrinkles occur. We think someone is dead  but IS that person really dead? We think we can identify the good guys and the bad guys  but can we REALLY? Turk uses a rolling suitcase as a vehicle for a crazy madcap sequence through the streets. A giant snake attacks a main character and bites it in the exact anatomical region youd expect such an attack to occur.
Oh, and Banderas dons a wig even more horrible than the main wig he wears in this movie, along with a red skirt-and-sweater combo and heels, as part of an elaborate scheme.
Its loud and dumb and irritating and forgettable.
