Here is a movie to celebrate. Here is a movie to celebrate our love of the movies  even the kitchsy fare, like the corny Westerns and the unintentionally campy biblical epics and the dancing sailor movies of the s and s.
Hail, Caesar! is pure, popcorn fun  a visual treat, a comedic tour de force and a sublime and sly slice of satire.
What a deep and wonderful love the Coen brothers have for movies. They love paying homage to genres from noir to Depression-era musicals to Westerns, they love making movies about movies, and with Hail, Caesar! they clearly loved making some five movies WITHIN the main movie.
Set in the Hollywood of the early s and filmed in gorgeous tones that reflect the time, Hail, Caesar! stars Josh Brolin in one of the funniest and most oddly endearing performances of his career as Eddie Mannix, a square-jawed, no-nonsense Hollywood fixer at the fictional Capitol Studios. Eddie Mannix was the name of a real MGM production executivefixer back in the day. This guy is pure fiction.
When a young starlet poses for risqu photos, when a leading man runs into romantic trouble, when a likable family star is pregnant out of wedlock  Eddie steps in and makes the problems disappear. His job is to keep Capitol Studios productions running on time and under budget, to keep his stars out of the gossip rags unless hes controlling the story, and to keep the unseen studio boss, a Mister Skank, happy.
Eddies a good guy, plagued by guilt over the smallest thing, whether its smoking a few cigarettes or neglecting his wife. Hes in confession so often  nearly every day  even his priest says, Its too soon for you to be back.
In one of the films funniest scenes, Eddie meets with a group of religious leaders to make sure Hail, Caesar!, a big-budget production about a ruthless Roman leader who is transformed by a chance meeting with Jesus, isnt offensive. A rabbi reminds Eddie he believes Jesus was just a man' a priest attempts to explain how Jesus is the Son of God but also one with his father' an Orthodox Christian priest says he doesnt buy the scene where a soldier jumps from one moving chariot to another.
George Clooney, completing what he has called his Numbskull Trilogy of Coen brothers films After O Brother, Where Art Thou? and Intolerable Cruelty, hams it up delightfully as Baird Whitlock, a vainglorious and not particularly bright movie star who is the lead in Hail, Caesar!
When Baird goes missing and a ransom note is delivered to the studio, Eddie springs into action. He hunts for clues to Bairds disappearance, he collects , in cash for the ransom, he staves off the pesky inquiries of twin gossip columnists Thora and Thessaly Thacker both played by Tilda Swinton  AND he puts out other messy fires at the studio.
The Roman picture, with scenes that look like they could have been culled from The Robe or The Silver Chalice, is one of five movies within the movie. Were also gifted with:
 An elaborate synchronized swim musical number starring Scarlett Johansson as an Esther Williams-type star playing a smiling mermaid.
 A couple of Westerns, both starring Hobie Doyle a very funny and likable Alden Ehrenreich, a cowboy plucked from obscurity to become a star. Hobies not much of an actor' his signature line is, Here, Whitey!, Whitey being his horse.
 A sophisticated comedy of manners, directed by one Laurence Laurentz Ralph Fiennes, brilliant, a pretentious twit of a director who reminds Eddie that for  years, the Laurence Laurentz name has meant a certain level of quality.
 An exhilarating, elaborate, impressively choreographed, fantastically funny musical number with echoes of films such as Anchors Aweigh and Singin in the Rain and On the Town. Channing Tatum kills as the song-and-dance man Burt Gurney, who is playing a Navy man enjoying one last night with his fellow sailors at a bar called The Swinging Dinghy before they head out for eight months at sea.
In a number called No Dames, Burt sings, slides across the bar, tap dances over peanut shells, dances on tabletops. The longer the number goes on, the gayer the subtext, to the point where its no longer subtext.
What makes all of this so great is the Coen brothers arent mocking these genres' theyre staging and lensing each movie-within-a-movie in a way that mirrors the technology, the the sets, the available effects, the visual style and the acting techniques of the time.
Oh, right: Clooneys Baird Whitlock has been kidnapped! What happened to him?
Suffice to say THAT plot thread gives the Coen brothers a chance to poke fun at some of the more pretentious, condescending, morally superior self-appointed Hollywood Communists of the time. Also, theres a submarine, and a funny dog, and Jonah Hill has a terrific cameo, and even the actors who have a line or two or no lines at all playing a chauffeur or an extra on the Roman film or a vacuuming maid or a cop make valuable contributions to the overall vibe.
This is one of my favorite movies ever made about making movies.
