Animals, a cautionary tale about a drug-addicted young couple, Heaven Knows What takes us on a similar journey  this time in New York City.
The lead performances in the latter film arent on the same level as the acting in Animals, but in some ways this is an even more harrowing and shocking work, in part because star Arielle Holmes isnt an actress who was cast to play a suicidal, heroin-addicted street kid. Shes re-enacting her own story, in a film based on her upcoming book, 'Mad Love in New York City.'
Filmmakers Joshua and Ben Safdie were researching another project in New York City when they encountered Holmes, a homeless teenage junkie with a goth-punk look, a gift for storytelling and a self-described addiction to drama. They encouraged Holmes to put her stories in writing  and Heaven Knows What is a fictionalized adaptation of Holmes writings.
When we first meet Harley Holmes, shes literally on the ground, rolling around in the throes of passion with her boyfriend and fellow heroin addict Ilya Caleb Landry Jones.
The shaky indie-cam photography and the intense close-ups on these two beautifully disheveled misfits area little irritating and slightly reminiscent of an overwrought fragrance ad  but the tone quickly shifts and intensifies when we cut to a distraught Harley desperately apologizing to Ilya for a transgression presumably she cheated on him and threatening to kill herself if thats what it takes for Ilya to forgive her.
Harleys a self-destructive mess in dire need of medical and psychological treatment, but thanks in large part to Holmes natural, unaffected performance, we can see why shes something of a star among her equally screwed-up friends on the street. Ilya, on the other hand, is a monster  a brooding, bumbling, abusive and manipulative jerk with no apparent redeeming qualities. Caleb Landry Jones, one of the few professional actors in the cast, doesnt help matters with an overly affected performance consisting of glowering and more glowering. The Ilya character, though based on a real-life boyfriend of Holmes, is the least interesting figure in the film.
Contrast that with non-actor Buddy Duress kinetic work as Mike, anon-again, off-again love interest for Harley who sort of looks out for her, though his main concern every day is buying and selling drugs and getting high. Mike thinks everything that happens to him is a story worth telling  and the way he tells the story, hes not all wrong.
With ear-splitting, electronic techno music pounding on the soundtrack and hand-held cameras following Harley, Mike, Ilya and their friends as they beg, borrow and steal for the money to pay for the next score, Heaven Knows What feels like an authentic, sometimes painfully accurate portrait of life in New York City as experienced by the homeless, ever-hustling teenagers who are at best invisible and at worst a serious nuisance for the residents and tourists wholiterally step over them while going about their day.
At times this is a beautifully shot film  but the Safdies never glamorize Harleys world or turn her character into some gloriously tragic heroine. We feel for Harley and we like her, but only a fool would want to spend five seconds in her tattered shoes.
