What a pile of garbage.
Robert De Niro is one of the greatest actors the movie universe has ever known  but when hes bad hes painfully bad, and its hard to recall a more terrible performance in De Niros career than his weirdly off-key work in Heist.
Even De Niros hair, jewelry and wardrobe miss the mark inthis ugly, vile, stilted and dopey thriller. If it were possible for cuff links to give a bad performance, theyre doing just that in this film.
The Wrap said it was described as a mix of Dog Day Afternoon and Speed '  and indeed this thrill-free thriller DOES rip off those films, but with a complete and astonishing lack of style.
De Niro plays The Pope, because that way we know hes in charge. Hes a very, very, very bad man who runs a casino and is involved in all sorts of dirty dealing.
Jeffrey Dean Morgan is Vaughn, who works at the casino and comes to The Pope asking for a favor, i.e., some , to pay the medical bills for Vaughns dying daughter. I mean, this is what were dealing with here.
The Pope says no to Vaughns request. A desperate Vaughn hatches a truly stupid plan to rip off The Popes casino. Cue the medium-grade action sequences and the horrendous plot twists.
After the heist goes horribly wrong and were subjected to a soundtrack more annoying than late summer bees buzzing in your ear, Vaughn and his Neanderthal partner-in-crime Cox a loud, abrasive, irritating Dave Bautista, turning in one of the worst acting jobs in recent memory hijack a bus.
From that point forward, Heist goes from lousy to even worse. The screenplay is so clunky, not a single cast member manages to sound believable. Familiar, likable actors from Kate Bosworth to Gina Carano to Morris Chestnut are buried under an avalanche of awful.
Youve been warned.
Lionsgate Premierepresents a film directed by Scott Mannand written by Stephen Cyrus Sepher and Max S. Adams. Running time: minutes. Rated R for violence, pervasive language and some sexual content. Opens Friday at Chatham  and on demand.




















                        









