In ways large and small, Hell or High Water is a movie so beautiful and harsh and elegiac and knowing, the moment it was over was the moment I wanted to see it again.
Consider a relatively low-key scene in which veteran Texas Rangers Marcus Hamilton Jeff Bridges and Alberto Parker Gil Birmingham are in front of a dusty old small-town diner called the T-Bone, discussing their next move.
In the prior scene, a crusty waitress, played to deadpan perfection by Margaret Bowman, had informed them they were getting the T-bone, and then commanded them to tell her what they were NOT getting in the way of side dishes.
Now, as Marcus and Alberto chat, the world-weary waitress trudges out behind them, continuing on with her hardscrabble life most likely spent entirely in this dying west Texas town.
Such a small but perfect detail.
With electrifying, graceful direction by David Mackenzie Starred Up, Perfect Sense' a rich, darkly humorous and deeply insightful screenplay by Taylor Sheridan Sicario, and no fewer than four performances as good as anything Ive seen onscreen this year, Hell or High Water is an instant classic modern-day Western, traveling down familiar roads but always, always with a fresh and original spin.
Set in West Texas but actually filmed in New Mexico, Hell or High Water is brimming with images of small towns teetering on collapse. Shuttered businesses dominate the landscape. Graffiti scribblings refer to someone doing three tours in Iraq but getting no help at home. Aging cattlemen acknowledge the anachronistic nature of their lifes work.
We begin with a bank robbery. Two armed men in ski masks storm into a branch of the Texas Midlands bank and make a cash grab of a few thousand bucks. No packets rigged with exploding dye, no large bills. They get away with it, but its pretty clear these two are new at the game.
The bank robbers are brothers. Chris Pine startlingly handsome on a Brad Pitt level but also a very good actor on a Brad Pitt level is Toby, a divorced father of two struggling to keep the family ranch afloat. Ben Foster one of the best character actors on the planet is Tanner, a loose cannon a year out of prison whose every action tells us hes probably going to be back in prison sooner rather than later, and he doesnt really give a damn if that happens.
Jeff Bridges as the aforementioned Texas Ranger Marcus is so perfectly cast for the role you wonder if he brought his boots and hat from previous movies to the set. A widower just days away from a retirement he dreads, Marcus leaps  well, saunters  at the chance to track down the robbers who have been hitting a string of Texas Midland branches.
Marcus partner Alberto Birmingham is half-Comanche, half-Mexican. Its almost literally a Cowboy-and-Indian duo. Marcus never misses an opportunity to needle Alberto with politically incorrect jibes. Alberto professes to resent the hell out of Marcus, but its clear theres an abiding friendship and deep respect between the two.
This movie could have been set in , what with the outlaw brothers robbin banks for a certain cause, and the veteran lawmen in pursuit, and the ever-present Gun Culture among civilians as well as the men wearing badges  and the feeling we have throughout this movie that before its over, guns will be drawn and shots will be fired, and its not going to end well for everyone.
Despite Tanners hotheaded screw-ups, the brothers are both pretty smart, and they have a fairly well conceived master plan that includes burying a series of getaway cars with a bulldozer deep on their own property, and laundering the cash at Oklahoma casinos.
Director Mackenzie and screenwriter Sheridan make every scene and character memorable, whether its a bank robbery scene where just about every customer on the premises is a big-time proponent of Conceal and Carry' a waitress Katy Mixon who refuses to surrender  in tip money she received from Toby as evidence unless the Rangers get a warrant because shes going to use it to pay half her mortgage, or a poker scene in which a hulking Comanche looms over Tanner and tries to intimidate him, only to realize you cant intimidate a true sociopath.
This film serves as a commentary on our times without ever getting political or preachy about our times. The NRA crowd could point to certain scenes and say, See? THATS what Im talking about! The anti-gun crowd could point to those same scenes and say, See? Thats what IM talking about!
Of course the banks are portrayed as the bad guys Wheres your boss? Now that looks like a man who would foreclose on a house! notes Marcus during one post-robbery investigation, but the tellers who work at the banks and even the small-branch managers are portrayed as regular folks who are no doubt enduring financial struggles of their own. Even the characters with two or three lines arent caricatures.
You could freeze nearly any frame of Hell or High Water and youd be looking at a work of art. Its stark and breathtaking and gorgeous to behold.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?w'h?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?w'h?w" class"wp-image- size-full" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?w'h" alt"Ben Foster left and Chris Pine play bank-robbing brothers in quot'Hell or High Water.quot'  CBS Films" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comccc.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Ben Foster left and Chris Pine play bank-robbing brothers in 'Hell or High Water.'  CBS Films
Pine has never been better. Foster is frighteningly good. Bridges is Bridges  he has nearly as much screen time as the brothers, but if hes positioned in the supporting actor category, he could get a nomination. Birmingham has the quietest of the four main roles, but he gets his moments, and hes great at every turn.
This is the best film Ive seen so far this year. If you tell me you love movies, I cant imagine you not wanting to see it.
