The Oprah Winfrey we see on the cover of her own magazine always looks so perfect and glossy and unlined, its almost as if shes an avatar of herself.
Hey. If I had a magazine called R and I were inclined to put myself on every cover, you wouldnt see me looking like I do right now. Or how I ever look in real life.
But Winfrey the actress has never shown the slightest hesitation to strip away all vanity in the service of the character. From Oprahs Oscar-nominated work in The Color Purple  through her fine performances in films such as Beloved and Selma, she has demonstrated a remarkable ability to disappear into characters whose adult lives couldnt be more dissimilar to hers.
Yes, I know. Its called acting. And with her nomination-worthy work in The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, Oprah provides further evidence that if she had never hosted a single hour of daytime talk in her life, if she had never become one of the most powerful and beloved humans on the planet, she could have fashioned a stellar career as a full-time actress.
Wearing a whistle affixed to a WWJD cloth necklace, sporting close-cropped gray hair, moving about with great purpose and urgency despite having to use a cane, Winfrey is a force playing Deborah, the -something daughter of a woman whose cancerous cells were the basis for some of the most important medical discoveries of the th century.
A woman whose tissue was cultivated without her knowledge and consent. A woman whose name was almost forgotten by history.
Winfreys performance is the best thing in the HBO movie The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks, an informative and competently executed but uneven drama about the woman whose cancerous cells based on journalist Rebecca Skloots non-fiction book about Henriettas legacy, both medical and familial.
As were told in an opening montage that combines black-and-white re-creations and newsreel-type footage accompanied by a jazzy score by Branford Marsalis, in  doctors at Johns Hopkins removed a cancerous sample from Henriettas cervix  and made a remarkable discovery. Dubbed HeLa, the cells demonstrated a near-miraculous resiliency, and were integral in the creation of everything from Dr. Jonas Salks polio vaccine to medication to combat cancer and AIDS.
The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks picks up the story some  years later, with journalist Rebecca working diligently to persuade Deborah and Henriettas other grown children to allow her to tell Henriettas story.
Through flashbacks, we learn the horrifying truth about Deborahs sister, who died at . We hear about doctors cultivating the DNA of Deborah when she was a child, without explaining why. We see Henrietta herself Renee Elise Goldsberry, doing fine work in flashbacks, putting a human face on HeLa before she became a posthumous, nearly anonymous medical breakthrough.
As for Rebeccas primary source, Deborah: She alternates between being a willing and enthusiastic partner, and an unpredictable, deeply skeptical obstacle.
Deborah faced physical and emotional challenges most of her life. Shes prone to spouting conspiracy theories to Rebecca  waving VHS copies of Jurassic Park and The Clone in Rebeccas face and claiming these films are proof science is using her late mothers cells for all kinds of crazy experiments.
Thats just science fiction, says Rebecca.
Its ALL science fiction! retorts Deborah, who also interprets the cloning of her mothers cells to mean there could be hundreds of people walking around London that look exactly like her mother.
Rose Byrne as Rebecca sometimes overplays it with the nervous laugh and the mannerisms  but she has a great moment when she finally stops coddling Deborah and stands up to her.
The great supporting cast includes Reg E. Cathey, Courtney B. Vance and Leslie Uggams. At times it feels as if director and co-writer George C. Wolfe has encouraged the actors to play to the rafters, as if theyre in a stage work. The number of scenes in which someone EXPLODES with rage or sorrow or resentment could have been cut in half.
The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks is a good movie with a great performance. Oprah Winfrey does honor to the memory of Deborah Lacks, who did honor to the memory of her mother Henrietta.
