What a beautiful and bloody mess of a movie.
High-Rise is a surreal, trippy, sex-drenched, blood-spattered, adult variation on Lord of the Flies with a touch of Brazil and even Metropolis, peppered with provocative allegories but eventually sinking under the weight of its own overly artsy, semi-smug self-consciousness.
Based on the  dystopian novel from J.G. Ballard, High-Rise is set in an ultra-modern, luxury high-rise where the tenants revert to savagery and a kill-or-be-killed mentality when accepted social mores are stripped away and class resentment kicks in.
British director Ben Wheatley lenses with aggressive flair and fills the screen with stark, sometimes shocking visuals, as if he had watched all of Stanley Kubricks and Quentin Tarantinos films just before filming commenced.
Tom Hiddleston, continuing a string of performances leaving no doubt hes one of our most versatile actors, shines in the leading role as Laing, a doctor residing in one of the nicer apartments in the high-rise.
When we first meet Laing, hes barbecuing on the balcony of his posh pad. But wait, whats that on a spit? It appears to be the leg of a canine. And it looks as if a good-sized bomb has blasted the building.
Cue the flashback graphic: THREE MONTHS EARLIER.
Before all the chaos ensued.
Having just moved into a pristine, intimidatingly huge high-rise on the outskirts of London, Laing is sunbathing nude on his balcony when a glass comes crashing down from an apartment above him. The startled Laing jumps to his feet, looks up  and theres Sienna Millers Charlotte, sauced out of her mind and giving Laing the once-over while she fends off the advances of a neighbor.
Youre an excellent specimen, Charlotte tells Laing, who flashes a wicked grin in return. This new building, with all the amenities one could hope for and plenty of attractive people milling about, has plenty of promise. Plenty of promise indeed.
High-Rise seems to be set in the future but in the mid-s as well. The fashion, the hairstyles, the cars and the overall vibe scream , but the quartet of monstrously tall high-rises jutting into the sky on the far edges of the city and the interiors of Laings particular building have a futuristic feel. This looks like a movie from the s imagining what  might be like.
Although most of the adults in the building have jobs in the outside world  every morning they march in unison out to the seemingly endless parking lot, get in their cars and presumably drive to London  the high-rise is something of a self-contained universe. The stay-at-home mothers and the children seem to never leave, as if theyre under some sort of home confinement.
The attractive couples and the well-off single people live in the higher floors of the building, while the working class and the families with multiple children are on the lower floors  steerage, if you will. The upper class enjoys all the perks, while the Lower Floor People are lucky if they can get running water and working electricity.
Meanwhile, the buildings architect Jeremy Irons lives a kingly existence in the penthouse and rules the building and its tenants like a benevolent dictator. The architect didnt just design a building, if youll hear him out. His plan was to design a better way of life for mankind.
Suffice to say thats not how things play out. We go from orgiastic, coke-fueled Restoration costume parties featuring a string quartet playing ABBA to horrific scenes of violence and cruelty and destruction. Director Wheatley and screenwriter Amy Jump are clearly playing much of as pitch-black satire, but High-Rise keeps hammering home the same points, and not even the wealth of strong performances from Hiddleston, Miller and Irons are enough to salvage the day.
