If youre looking for a complex portrait of a tortured artist, Hockney is not the film for you.
This is a sunny, admiring documentary about the British and Los Angeles treasure David Hockney, who remains productive at , is candid and entertaining in interview segments and seems utterly content and grateful for the life hes had and the artistry hes been gifted with.
Director Randall Wright weaves archival footage with lingering looks at some of Hockneys best-known works' interviews with longtime associates, and just the right measure of visual panache to create a rich if occasionally slight bio of one of the most well-known artists of the last half-century.
Born in , Hockney speaks of his upbringing in Bradford, England, where he was one of five children in a working-class home. Hes old enough to remember World War II, and the tough times that followed. There was food rationing until I was , recalls Hockney.
Though Hockneys family wasnt particularly devoted to the arts, his fathers words of advice stayed with him for life.
One of the things my father told me was to never worry what the neighbors think, says Hockney. Thats aristocratic, not working class. I took that lesson
We see vibrant photos and film footage from the London of the s and the Los Angeles of the s and s. After seeing a commercial for Clairol hair dye, Hockney dyed his locks blond, creating his signature look. He never attempted to hide his homosexuality, which informed many of his most accomplished and celebrated works.
In one of the films rare moments of deeper reflection, Hockney speaks movingly of his relationship with Peter Schlesinger the model for many of Hockneys early Los Angelespool paintings, and talks of the devastating AIDS plague in the s.
We also hear from individuals who have been immortalized as the subjects of some of Hockneys most famous works. What a thing, to have an abstract version of your young self captured in a work of art that has been seen and enjoyed by millions  and will be seen for untold years to come.
