Of all the characters in all the movies Ive seen this year, few are as poorly drawn and as pathetic as the sex-addict dentist played by Jennifer Aniston in Horrible Bosses .
The sad thing is, this is the second time Aniston has played the role of Dr. Julia Harris, D.D.S., a sex-crazed woman who is so obviously deranged she wouldnt be allowed to visit a dentist let alone have her own practice.
Im going to spoiler-alert the bleep out of the scene Im about to describe, because:
A. You shouldnt see this movie anyway.
B. You shouldnt see this movie anyway.
C. See A and B
Because the plot requires it, Julia and her sex addict support group are meeting in Julias office late at night. Jason Batemans Nick is discovered there the reasons why are not worth getting into, and he must masquerade as a fellow sex addict lest his real mission be discovered.
" data-medium-file"" data-large-file"" class"wp-image- size-medium" src"https:i.wp.comentertainment.suntimes.comwp-contentuploadsHB-r-x.jpg" alt"Jennifer Aniston" width"" height"" 
Jennifer Aniston
Julia is bored when Nick says hes addicted to women, so Nick concocts a story about a homosexual experience he had at the age of  while wrestling with a boy his age  and that gets Julia really worked up. She quizzes Nick in the most graphic terms imaginable about the episode.
Its a moment so sad, so desperate and so tasteless, I was taken out of the movie not that I was immersed anyway as I wondered: How did writer-director Sean Anders possibly think that was funny, and why didnt Jason Bateman and Jennifer Aniston throw their respective copies of the screenplay across the room the first time they read the scene?
Horrible Bosses was a mediocre, uneven comedy, but it made  million domestically, so now we get Horrible Bosses . 
If theres a Horrible Bosses , I might have to call in sick to my Wonderful Bosses suck-up alert.
Related: Jennifer Aniston will say almost anything as dirty dentist
The sequel is so lazy its not even about horrible bosses. In addition to Julie, the wretched employer played by Kevin Spacey returns, but its a wasted extended cameo. In fact, Nick, Kurt and Dale Bateman, Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day, respectively have struck out on their own as entrepreneurs.
There was a fleeting moment when I thought THEY were going to turn out to be horrible bosses, and maybe that might have been funny, but no. This is a slapstick kidnapping yarn, with Nick, Kurt and Dale plotting revenge against Christoph Waltzs evil business kingpin Bert Hanson after he steals their stupid idea for a device called the Shower Buddy. An early scene, where the guys demonstrate their product on a local morning television show in Los Angeles, contains an extended visual sequence that would be embarrassing for a junior college comedy troupe.
Ive liked Chris Pine in other roles, but he flounders and tries way too hard here as Berts son Rex. In fairness to Pine, hes stuck playing a racist, vile, spoiled jerkoff. Hes so vicious to the guys and to his Asian maid, theres no room for his character to become even the least bit sympathetic, though the movie tries to sell us that load of nonsense.
A major problem with both Bosses movies is Day and Sudeikis are basically playing variations on incredible dimwits, while Bateman is only slightly smarter  at least smart enough to not want to spend five more minutes of his life with these blithering nincompoops. Theyre so stupid they dont even realize how morally corrupt they are, and theres not much of a comedic premise in that.
Every once in a while theres an inspired montage, or a one-liner that made me laugh out loud. But how can you have the great Christoph Waltz playing a villain in a comedy and you get almost nothing out of it? Not to mention Jamie Foxxs phone-it-in return as Mother'' Jones.
As the credits roll on Horrible Bosses , we get a blooper reel. Nine times out of , thats a sure sign the movie you just saw was, well, mostly horrible.
