Of all the movies ever made about time travel, Hot Tub Time Machine  is the most recent one.
Figured Id dispense with niceties at the top and take it from there.
Given the considerable comedic talents of Rob Corddry, Craig Robinson, Adam Scott et al., and the ragged, what-the-hell charms of the original Hot Tub Time Machine, its surprising how rotten this movie is from start to finish. Its a dull, lazy, scattershot would-be comedy about a group of mostly unlikable characters who have all the depth of the Three Stooges in the Curly Joe era.
We start in the present day. Former sad sacks Lou Corddry and Nick Craig Robinson are both famous, immensely wealthy  and devoid of moral compasses. Lou is a megalomaniacal billionaire who invented the search engine known as Lougle get it? while Nick is a superstar recording artist, ripping off the works of everyone from Nirvana to Lisa Loeb to the Black Eyed Peas by writing their songs before they come along. John Cusacks Adam appears only as a photograph and a point of reference. Good move, Cusack.
Nick mistreats the director on the set of his latest video shoot and neglects his shrill wife Kellee Stewart, who complains long and loud because Nick would rather go to the Grammys then spend time at her sisters.
Lou is a much worse human being. He dresses like a washed-up rock star, verbally abuses his executive staff, tells his wife Collette Wolfe he hates her and is nothing short of cruel to his son Jacob Clark Duke. Lous idea of a good time is to cackle wildly whenever his son is humiliated.
If this setup sounds like a tricky premise for a comedy, ding-ding-ding.
And then it gets worse.
After Lou is murdered hes shot in the crotch, of course, Nick and Jacobdrag him into the Hot Tub Time Machine. Queue an annoying drinking-and-drugging montage, cut to the morning after  and the guys are in the year , which looks almost exactly like the year .
The fortunes of Lou, Jacob and Nick have changed drastically over the decade. But Lou is still a jerk, Nicks kind of a nitwit and Jacob is a marshmallow. When the three of them arent standing around insulting each other, theyre stumbling through a rice-paper-thin plot that has them half-heartedly searching for the identity of Lous assassin so they can go back in time and stop him before he shoots.
Mostly, though, they party. Director Steve Pink is a big fan of crazy, quick-cut montages meant to replicate the hallucinatory experiences of the characters onscreen. That makes one big fan of such montages.
And it wouldnt be a low-rent comedy without the obligatory gay sex is the WORST scene, which plays out on a nationally televised game show hosted by Christian Slater  and as bad as that sounds, I don't think I can do justice to how truly, painfully unfunny it really is.
Its been five years since Hot Tub Time Machine had a nice box office run, grossing  million domestically and then enjoying mild cult status on home video and cable. Thats enough of a real-world timeline for somebody to have come up with an idea for a sequel that would actually have been worth doing.
But what we got was the comedy movie equivalent of a football walk-through practice, where the players dont wear full equipment and they go at half-speed.
We get a dozen references to other time travel and parallel-universe films and TV shows, all of them much better than this movie. Adam Scott from Parks and Recreation and Gillian Jacobs from Community are added to the mix as  characters, but Jacobs is underused and Scotts role is an embarrassment.
Hot Tub Time Machine  closes on a note that seems to promise a third entry in the franchise.
Threat would be more like it.
