There comes a time in ones young life when one realizes SPOILER ALERT! Big Bird of Sesame Street and worldwide fame isnt actually a very large, talking bird, but a human being inside a costume.
Hopefully that time comes before one goes off to college.
However, I have to say that before experiencing the sweet, touching and fascinating documentary I Am Big Bird, I had never really considered the amazing feats of dexterity performed by one Caroll Spinney, , the man who has been inside Big Bird for  years and counting.
About halfway into the film, after directors Dave La Mattina and Chad N. Walker have told us about Spinneys background his father was harsh and abusive' classmates taunted and bullied him for his artistic ways and have reminded us of Big Birds status as a worldwide icon to generations of children, they wisely pause to delve into a partly animated discussion and explanation of the mechanics of bringing B-squared to life.
First, theres the matter of those heavy orange legs, i.e., pants, and the big feet. SpinneyBig Bird must navigate Sesame Street without tripping over props or people or puppets.
Spinney wears a small monitor that allows him to see what audiences at home are seeing when they watch Big Bird. But that means if Big Bird has to exit to the left, Spinney must walk to his right. Snippets of the script for the day are taped around the monitor. Hes got to keep track of his lines and not miss cues from the other actors.
With his right arm continually held above his head, Spinney controls Big Birds beak movements. His right pinky handles Big Birds eyebrows. With his left hand, he controls Big Birds arms.
Plus hes doing that famous Big Bird voice.
The trick is in making it seem effortless, something Spinney has been doing for nearly a half-century. Like the actors who voice the characters on The Simpsons, he has portrayed one of the most recognizable figures in pop culture history  yet he can walk down any street unrecognized.
I Am Big Bird is a loving, respectful if at times shamelessly sentimental portrayal of Spinney, complete with old home movies, behind-the-scenes footage of Sesame Street tapings and SpinneyBig Birds journey to China, interviews with Spinneys second wife and his grown children and testimonials from colleagues.
Even at , Spinney retains a childlike sense of wonder and an undying devotion to Big Bird. We hear of a few rifts he had with a director, and Spinney talks briefly of having suicidal thoughts after his first wife left him. And theres a startling anecdote about how SpinneyBig Bird was invited to ride on the Challenger space shuttle and even met with the astronauts and took part in some training exercises, only to be told the logistics of that ,-feather costume couldnt be worked out. Spinney was replaced on that ill-fated mission by a schoolteacher, Christa McAuliffe.
These sobering moments aside, the great bulk of I Am Big Bird is a Sunny Day, Sweepin the Clouds Away, brightly colored tribute to the man and his art.
And why not. If the life and times of Big Bird cant make for a sunny documentary, we're doomed.
