Mia is a high school senior caught between two worlds.
Wait. Make that four worlds. Or at least three and a half.
If only even one of those worlds wasnt filled with so many clichs and so many blatant and ineffective grabs for our heartstrings.
Based on the popular young adult novel from  by Gayle Forman, If I Stay plays like a high school version of Ghost, only less involving, less romantic and a little creepier.
As a bittersweet story, its more bitter than sweet. If some of the characters in this movie went to see The Fault In Our Stars, the vastly superior teen romance from earlier this year about two teenagers with cancer who fall in love, theyd be thinking, I should be so lucky.
Chloe Grace Moretz has a real sweetness and likability as Mia Hall, a -year-old living in Portland with her former punk rocker father Denny Joshua Leonard, her former riot grrrl mother Kat Mireille Enos and her adorable sibling Teddy Jakob Davies, one of the first little brothers in movie history who never gets on his older sisters nerves. This moppet seems to exist solely to support Mia in her dream of becoming a world-class cellist.
Mom and Dad are super-cool, post-grunge hipster parents who behave as if every day is an extended home movie designed to make everyone else feel as if their family isnt nearly as amazing. They host straggler potluck dinners, they encourage their daughter to break curfew  and you get the feeling theyre so liberal they think Alec Baldwins a moderate.
When Jamie Blackleys Adam, a slightly older aspiring rock star, sweeps Mia off her feet, her parents couldnt be more thrilled. Mom and Dad are actually kind of irritating in their slightly smug, smothering ways. At one point when everyone is around the campfire doing a lite cover version of the Smashing Pumpkins Today, I was kinda hoping the neighbors would call the cops.
The story of Mia and Adam is told mostly in flashback. In present day were with Mia in the hospital after a terrible auto accident involving her entire family.
Actually, were with two Mias. Theres the seriously injured Mia whos in a coma  and theres the barefoot Mia, Spiritual Mia, nobody can see or hear. The between-two-worlds Mia can walk around the hospital most of the time she needs someone else to open doors for her, eavesdrop on conversations, hear what the doctors and nurses are saying, and look down upon her comatose self. Moretz is a talented young actress, but its a strange dual role, and in a few of the heavier dramatic scenes and there are a lot of those, she seems to be reaching.
Theres not a whole lot of spark in the flashback romance scenes. Adams a nice enough guy despite a weepy backstory out of a Lifetime movie, but his music doesnt exactly scream young Billy Corgan, and Jamie Blackleys performance falls far short of sizzling. Watching two teenagers bicker about what theyre going to do when its time for the girl to choose a college is about as scintillating as, well, watching two teenagers bicker about what theyre going to do when its time for the girl to choose a college.
The hospital sequences are much more problematic. Director R.J. Cutler is fond of time-lapse establishing shots and rapid-fire montages, none of them particularly effective in conveying this bizarre dual world Mia now inhabits. Theres the obligatory light at the end of the hallway signifying the afterlife, and theres a kind of Oracle Nurse Aisha Hinds who keeps telling Mia she controls her own fate. I wasnt always able to resist the urge to roll my eyes.
Spiritual Mia hasnt lost the capacity for feeling intense emotion, but shes so busy narrating her own story, running around the hospital to check on family members and remembering her romance with Adam, she spends very little time questioning what state of consciousness shes occupying. Spiritual Mia even falls asleep on the floor next to Comatose Mia. She needs sleep?
The two best scenes in the film feature Stacy Keach as the unfortunately named Gramps, Dennys father. One is a flashback and one is in the hospital, and in those two relatively short scenes, I felt crusty old Gramps was a more authentic person than hippie-dippy Mom and Dad, who seemed to be spending equal amounts of time being ever-so-loving to their children and congratulating themselves for being so awesome.
Theres a lot of musical name-dropping going on here. Beethoven, Iggy Pop, Debbie Harry, Sonic Youth, Patti Smith. Moretz spent months studying how to convincingly play someone who can play the hell out of the cello. Perhaps cellists will snicker at her moves. I thought she did a nice job. We believe this kid loves classical music. Were not so sure she should be all that upset when rocker boy Adam becomes something of a regional celebrity, complete with a distractingly older groupie who asks him to sign her boob.
The last act of If I Stay is primarily about whether Spiritual Mia will transition to the next world or whether shes going to fight to resuscitate Coma Mia. I will not tell you how it plays out other than to say the ending, like most of what transpired to bring us to that moment, is badly out of rhythm.
Email: rroepersuntimes.com
Twitter: richardroeper
