If ever there were an inkling Daniel Radcliffe might fall victim to Harry Potter and the Curse of the Post-Blockbuster Franchise Career,' said inkling never had a chance.
Swiss Army Man earlier this year to perhaps his most accomplished onscreen role to date  that of an FBI agent who goes undercover as a white supremacist to infiltrate a potential domestic terrorist threat in Imperium.
We believe the diminutive but screen-commanding Radcliffe as an intense, idealistic, somewhat nave federal agent  and we can see how even the most sophisticated among the ranks of the racist soldiers would buy into this guy as a disillusioned Black Ops veteran filled with hatred for blacks, Hispanics and Jews.
With his head shaved, spouting racial invectives dripping with so much hatred we cringe and sporting a flawless American accent, Radcliffe is so far removed from the Harry Potter character a casual observer might not even realize its the same actor.
Imperium it means authority to command is based on the real-life experiences of former FBI agent Michael German, and if even a third of this stuff happened to German, one imagines hell spend the rest of his life trying to shake it off.
Radcliffe plays Nate Foster, a smart but inexperienced young agent tabbed by his supervisor, the wisecracking, gum-cracking Angela Zamparo Toni Collette, to go undercover and join a neo-Nazi organization that could be graduating from hate-filled websites, underground radio shows and parades to a dirty bomb attack in a major American city. Sidebar: Collette is an accomplished and very likable actress, but whoever OKd the choice for her to chomp theatrically on her gum throughout the movie to the point of distraction was doing her no favors.
Nate memorizes his new back-story, including the details of his tours in Iraq and his reasons for wanting to join the movement. Even if his new buddies show up unannounced at his new apartment to check for any signs hes a cop of some kind, theyll find nothing.
Some of the skinheads are your clichd Nazi-loving boneheads who are just looking for an excuse to spew their hatred among like-minded idiots, and an outlet for their urge to commit irrational violence against minorities.
Others are educated, sophisticated, outwardly rational believers in the cause  which of course makes them much more chilling and infinitely more dangerous.
Sam Trammell True Blood is a soft-spoken, well-read, classical music-loving family man who comes to think of Nate as a kindred spirit and invites him into his home, to listen to Brahms and share meals with his devoted wife and his two young children, who already are being brainwashed with white supremacist propaganda.
The Infiltrator, our hero finds himself empathizing with the very figure hes tasked with taking down  leading to the obligatory scene where the boss has to remind him of his mission. So yes, Imperium follows a familiar path, but does so with intelligence and plausibility at nearly every turn.
As written and directed by Daniel Ragussis, Imperium is filled with a half-dozen other supporting characters as compelling and in some cases just as unsettling as the neo-Nazi who wears comfortable sweaters and has built a tree house in his suburban backyard for his kids. The most memorable is Dallas Wolf, a right-wing fringe radio host who has authored a modern-day 'Mein Kampf' titled 'Genocide: The Murder of White America,' and is attracting increasingly larger crowds on the lecture circuit.
Does this charismatic lunatic actually believe the hate hes selling  or is it shtick to attract listeners and sell books? As Wolf, the brilliant Tracy Letts keeps us guessing until at long last all the cards are on the table.
On a number of occasions, it appears as if Nate will be found out. Each time, the screenplay and the actors take us to a place we find credible  and not always predictable. Imperium is a well-spun, tight thriller, thanks in no small part to Radcliffes excellent, sharply focused performance.
