Well, that was unnecessary.
Twenty years after Independence Day stormed the summer box office and Will Smith announced himself as a major star in the making, we get Independence Day: Resurgence, which is nothing more than a clunky, clich-riddled alien invasion movie from the s B-movie playbook dressed up in st century special effects.
A sampling of actual lines from the film:
Yaaaah!
Nobody else dies today!
Aaaargh!
They got me!
Yeeeeaaaaaah!
Is that an alien space gun?
Grrraaaaaaahhhh!
Im not saving the world. Im saving YOU.
AAAAAAAAHHHH!
The Yaaaah! type lines are indicative of what various pilots say as theyre firing on the enemy or getting hit by the enemy. Theres a LOT of yelling the cockpits in this movie.
After showing initial interest in the sequel, Smith dropped out. Perhaps the disaster that was After Earth turned him off to further sci-fi adventures for a while.
Lucky Will. They killed off his character, so not only does he avoid appearing in Resurgence, theres virtually no chance other than flashbacks of him showing up in the third chapter, which were threatened with at the end of this bomb.
Were told Smiths Captain Hiller was killed in a training exercise. Gee, after saving the world? Really! Theres a cheesy painting of Captain Hiller hanging in a prominent spot in the White House, and his son Dylan Jessie T. Usher in a not-great performance is carrying on his legacy as a hotshot pilot.
Independence Day: Resurgence is set in real time, some  years after the great alien war of , but in a parallel universe where all nations are united in peace, and there hasnt been a sign of any giant slimy invading insect-looking creatures in two decades.
As for alums of the original who do appear in the sequel, a partial roster:
 Bill Pullman returns as now former President Whitmore, who is haunted by nightmares and calls himself a crazy old man even as he warns the aliens are returning. He even sports a Lettermanesque beard to let us know hes no longer a part of the mainstream.
 Jeff Goldblum is the best thing in the film, seemingly amusing himself with droll line readings, as David Levinson, who has become the director of the Earth Space Defense. Once the inevitable invasion occurs and major cities begin to fall, Levinson dryly notes, They like to take out the landmarks.
 Unfortunately, Judd Hirsch also returns and once again hams it up beyond belief as Davids meddling, annoying father, who calls people putz and schmuck, because, you know, hes Jewish.
Among the newbies: Liam Hemsworth is Jake Morrison, the obligatory Gifted But Cocky Pilot Who Breaks All the Rules. Maika Monroe is the presidents daughter, the obligatory Plucky Girlfriend Who Can Also Fly Jets. Nicholas Wright is Floyd, the obligatory Government Dweeb Who Eventually Picks Up a Gun.
Oh, and Deobia Oparei is the warlord Dikembe Umbutu, who specializes in killing aliens with his twin machetes. All right, Ill admit thats a new one.
All of these characters, and far too many more, are mired in a formulaic alien-invasion film that for all its massive D battle sequences and all its rousing music and all its attempts to make us care about these characters is one of the most uninvolving movies of the year.
Everyone keeps talking about how the fate of the world is at stake, and we see the destruction of countless cities, meaning millions of lives have been lost  but its bloodless, from-a-distance destruction. Even when two of the younger characters witness the deaths of older relatives, I doubt therell be a moist eye in the house.
The Resurgence blueprint calls for a scene in which characters have human, allegedly humorous andor touching moments' a scene in which characters plot strategy against the aliens' and a big action sequence in which its often difficult to tell the difference between the good-guy spaceships and the bad-guy spaceships. Rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat.
Most of the performances in the film are as forgettable as the storyline and the special effects. Theres a lot of hugging and cheering and weeping and speechifying, but precious little of it rings true. We see CGI explosions and battles and we cut to the actors in the cockpit or command central or squinting up at the sky, and it just doesnt connect or resonate.
Independence Day: Resurgence is directed by Roland Emmerich, whose credits include the first Independence Day, White House Down, , BC, and the  Godzilla. He knows how to do slick and bombastic. Five writers teamed up for the screenplay.
This is a disaster by committee.
