Tell me again why shes sorta famous?
One of the things I most admired about Ingrid Goes West was the spot-on depiction of a certain type of Instagram and Snapchat mid-level celebrity who has somehow managed to build an audience of a few hundred thousand followersfans.
Without any measurable skills.
Were talking about the physically beautiful individuals male or female with the seemingly perfect lives, who are constantly posing for photos on the beach or at the gym or at some gallery opening' sharing pics of themselves cuddling with their significant other' offering life coach advice about being the best person you can be each and every day' posting quotes culled from self-help books or attributed to great world leaders, and tagging their entries with Blessed or KillerWorkout or 'InLove or AmazingFarmersMarket.
Avocado Toast Selfie, anyone?
In the smart and darkly amusing Ingrid Goes West, the wonderful Elizabeth Olsen is perfectly cast as an Internet semi-star: one Taylor Sloane, a pretty and relatable and sunny trendsetter living the seemingly perfect life.
Taylor lives with her supportive, sensitive-artist, man-bun husband Ezra Wyatt Russell in Venice Beach. While Ezra works on his found objects art Ezras pieces are so dreadful we want to advise him to cut off the man-bun and sell his hair for a few bucks, just so he can contribute to the partnership, Taylor continues to build her brand as a lifestyle guru.
Heres the thing, though. As you might have surmised from the title, Ingrid Goes West isnt primarily about Taylor  its told mostly from the point of view of Aubrey Plazas Ingrid, an unbalanced and lost Pennsylvanian in her s who suffers great humiliation in her hometown and latches onto an Internet obsession with Taylor who makes the mistake of responding to one of Ingrids Insta comments as a way of making a comeback.
Staked with a cash windfall she received from a personal tragedy, Ingrid sets off for California with the singular goal of meeting and befriending Taylor, and thanks to some basic Internet research skills and Ingrids willingness to commit crimes and misdemeanors in the name of accidentally meeting Taylor, it doesnt take long for Ingrid and Taylor to become besties.
And why not? Yes, Ingrid is an Internet stalker  but Taylor doesnt know that. Besides, Taylor herself is Fake News. Little wonder shed gravitate to someone like Ingrid, who does nothing but praise her and validate her life.
I loved Ingrids relationship with her landlord Dan OShea Jackson Jr., who is at least as delusional as Ingrid, given his wildly unsubstantiated belief hes writing the next Batman movie.
But for all of Dans goofiness, at least hes a real human being who will be there for Ingrid when she needs him.
Aubrey Plaza is a sensation as Ingrid, who is alternately charming and sad and pathetic and absolutely insane. Plaza has a unique and magnetic screen presence that creates great empathy, even when shes portraying a mostly off-putting character.
Director and co-writer Matt Spicer displays just the right touch as the story gets crazier. We never lose sight of Ingrids stalker ways and her unbalanced state  but Taylor and Ezra and Taylors brother Nicky Billy Magnussen and their so-called friends are such vapid, self-obsessed, social media vampires, we stay on Ingrids side.
Because at least Ingrid has a soul.
