From the moment we open the door into It Comes at Night, its clear this isnt going to be a standard horror film.
Look at this man. Hes maybe  years old. His eyes tell us hes conscious of his humanity and who he used to be  but hes also aware of the terrible, irreversible fate awaiting him because hes been turned into  something.
We dont know who he is, but we know the people in gas masks surrounding him care about him or at least about the man he used to be, and we understand theyre going to have to put him down, lest the virus that infected him spread to them as well.
And we know thats going to break their hearts.
It Comes at Night is all about the choices made by good people in the midst of an apocalypse, and how even the best intentions can lead to tragedy.
The chameleon actor Joel Edgerton The Gift, Midnight Special has an uncanny ability to play outwardly likable everymen we cant entirely trust. Thats certainly the case with the patriarch he plays in this film. We want to like this guy, but whats he really up to?
In It Comes at Night, Edgerton is Paul, a former history teacher turned survivalist living with his wife Sarah Carmen Ejogo and their teenage son Travis Kelvin Harrison Jr. in their heavily secured home in the woods.
SOMETHING terrible has happened out there. We dont know exactly what it is, but we do know its so lethal and so pervasive, Paul and his family never leave the house without wearing gas masks, and they treat any visitors who knock on their door as threats.
During the day, Paul, Sarah, Travis and their faithful dog Stanley head out to gather food and firewood, and to check the perimeter. At night, they turn out the lights, they double-lock the doors, they keep quiet and they brace themselves for the coming storm. Anyone and anything approaching the house is to be killed.
Still, after some serious drama and much debate, they make the decision to welcome Will Christopher Abbott, his wife Kim Riley Keough and their toddler son Andrew Griffin Robert Faulkner into their home.
Everyone settles in for an extended family dynamic that creates some wonderful, if fleeting, moments of trust.
But then the night comes.
The superb cast does a wonderful job of keeping us guessing as to everyones motives. Travis is such a likable kid, but his eavesdropping on the guests, and his teenage lust for Kim, is off-putting. Will seems like a great guy who is extremely grateful for Pauls hospitality  until a glitch in Wills backstory has Paul and us wondering about Will.
Thats when It Comes at Night is most effective  when were trying to figure out these characters and what exactly is creating those weird noises and jolting thumps beyond the locked doors.
On the downside, writer-director Trey Edward Shults indulges in too many It was only a dream sequences that are clearly It was only a dream' sequences from the get-go, which actually serves to lessen the tension. And sometimes a bump in the night is just a bump in the night.
But not always. And thats what gives It Comes at Night some real impact.
