WARNING: This review contains semi-major SPOILER ALERTS, especially if you havent seen a single action movie in the last - years. Thank you.
Lets start with the cinematically lazy choice to stage a major chase-and-shoot sequence in Jack Reacher: Never Go Back during a Halloween parade in New Orleans, for crying out loud.
Never mind whos doing the shooting and whos doing the running, and why theres so much shooting and running. That doesnt matter, because nothing in this throwaway actioner really matters. You could watch this movie late at night, while falling asleep, and then wake up every few minutes, and then fall asleep again, and youd be OK without hitting the Rewind button on your magic clicker. The whole thing is just so sloppy and dumb and overflowing with clichs.
Lets run down just a few of the tired tropes that surface in the parade sequence:
We get overacting extras wearing colorful costumes, dancing about and trying VERY hard not to notice the principal characters threading their way through the throng, always managing to keep an eye on one another.
We get a dimwit protagonist who leaves the safety of a huge crowd on a brightly lit avenue presumably patrolled by police and chooses to run down a dark and deserted street, the better to be cornered by the villain. In the immortal words of Napoleon Dynamite, Idiot!
We get heroes and villains leaping from rooftop to rooftop, firing shots at one another, engaging in hand-to-hand combat  and nobody notices. I guess those fireworks in the distance are too much of a distraction.
We even get the classic standoff where the Good Guy says, Im putting the gun down!, seemingly giving himself up, so the Bad Guy wont kill the Innocent Victim.
And thats just one elongated sequence of very bad badness. Theres plenty more where that came from.
Of all the action movies Tom Cruise has made in his long and monumentally successful career, this is one of them. Cruise is always a charming onscreen presence, but its apropos hes often wielding a cellular device in this movie, because this is the very definition of phoning it in. One surmises Cruise faced bigger challenges deciding what to eat for lunch on the set every day than he did in actually playing this part.
Never Go Back is the totally unnecessary sequel to the mediocre and forgettable  Jack Reacher.
The first one was a dud. This ones worse.
Nearly every scene plays like a near-parody of a Tom Cruise actioner, from the numerous scenes where the diminutive and middle-aged Cruise systematically takes out superfluous henchmen and stunt doubles twice his size and half his age, through the cookie-cutter plot about greedy ex-military mercenaries spilling American blood in the name of turning a profit, to the ludicrous prison escape sequence and the even more ludicrous airport chase scene, to the smug, supposedly sophisticated villains who keep underestimating the legendary Jack Reacher, even though hes THE LEGENDARY JACK REACHER.
The likable Cobie Smulders isnt particularly believable as Major Susan Turner, a badass military lifer who heads up Reachers old Army unit. Off the grid and decidedly EX-military, Reacher nevertheless phones Turner on a regular basis and they work together solving major cases while also flirting and talking about one day meeting in person.
But when Reacher does show up at Turners Washington, D.C., office, he learns shes been arrested for espionage and shes in prison. Because we need some sort of hokey, unrealistic frame-up plot so Reacher and Turner can go on the lam and try to figure out why theyre both being framed.
And yes, theres a scene where Turner wears a baseball cap in an Internet caf in an effort to go unrecognized.
Also, Jack Reacher might have a daughter! Her name is Sam shes played with uneven uncertainty by Danika Yarosh, shes  years old, shes a real spitfire, and you better believe she ends up on the road with Reacher and Turner, so the three of them can team up and deal with any predictable twist the story sends their way.
Never Go Back? Dont Go In.
