Hey man. What are YOU doing here?
Just as Tom Cruise continues to carry the Mission: Impossible action franchise in his s, the -year-old Matt Damon still kicks butt in serious fashion in his fourth appearance and first since  as Jason Bourne in the film of the same name.
Reteaming with Bourne Supremacy and Bourne Ultimatum director Paul Greengrass, Damons first impressive feat is wiping our memories clean of The Bourne Legacy with Jeremy Renner, which was to the Bourne series was George Lazenby was to the Bond films.
In Jason Bourne, our man Jason knows who he is  but he doesnt really know who he is. The guy is still in need of some serious therapy but hes way way WAY off the grid, coping with migraine-inducing flashbacks and carving out a living as a bare-knuckled street fighter in dusty outposts. Suffice to say Jason doesnt have a Twitter or Snapchat account.
But just when he thinks hes out, they pull him back in!
The always excellent Julia Stiles returns as Jasons back-in-the-day ally Nicky Parsons, who is now working with an Edward Snowden-like hacker to expose the CIAs most covert and in some cases most sinister black-ops programs.
When Nicky breaches the CIAs system and learns a shocking secret about Jasons past, she tracks him down in Greece, and they rendezvous in the middle of a political revolt.
Few directors in the world can match Greengrass ability to stage and shoot action scenes such as the breathtaking, chaotic sequence in Greece, as teams of CIA operatives and a lone contract assassin known as The Asset a chillingly effective Vincent Cassel hunt down Nicky and Jason amidst the madness of a full-scale riot. Its action filmmaking at its finest.
Tommy Lee Jones does his world-weary, smartest-guy-in-the-room thing as CIA director Robert Dewey, a coldly pragmatic and morally bankrupt S.O.B. who wouldnt know a moment of self-doubt if it splashed him in the face. Its one of Jones best performances in recent years.
Deweys reaction to the first Jason Bourne sighting in years is simple: Kill him.
Good luck with that, Dewey.
Newly minted Oscar winner Alicia Vikander The Danish Girl plays Heather Lee, a brilliant and ambitious techno analyst with the CIA who argues in favor of bringing Jason home instead of taking him out. She thinks shes playing Dewey, Dewey thinks hes playing her, and everybody keeps underestimating Jason, which seems pretty stupid considering his track record.
Even if youve seen all the Bourne films, there are times when matters get muddled. Riz Ahmed does fine work as the billionaire founder of a Facebook-like social media company in bed with the government, but every time we take a detour into that subplot, it means another few minutes of Jason Bourne without Jason Bourne. The flashback sequences involving Jason and his father Gregg Henry are a bit simplistic and overwrought. And once in a while, the action screeches to a halt so characters can explain whats happening.
Still. Jason Bourne is the best action thriller of the year so far, with a half-dozen terrific chase sequences and fight scenes. At one point the action swings to Vegas, and while some of what transpires is almost cartoonishly over-the-top, its great fun.
Damon is outstanding as the tightly wound, perpetually restless and conflicted Jason Bourne, who is practically a superhero when it comes to fighting but is utterly lost the rest of the time. Vikander is faced with a tough challenge, as the Heather character has to shoot out line after line of technical jargon and act as a kind of interpreter to the audience, explaining how the CIA can track Jason. And, like Stiles Nicky, Heather is a patriot who isnt entirely convinced Jason is a traitor. Strong work by Vikander.
Jason Bourne doesnt have the fresh kick of the first Bourne film from nearly a decade and a half ago  but Damon is a more accomplished actor than he was in , and the more we know about this character, the more we feel for him, and its a damn treat to see him again after all these years.
