You cant keep doing this forever.  Diana PrinceWonder Woman to a bruised and battered Bruce WayneBatman.
I can barely do it now.  Bruce WayneBatman.
nbsp'
Boy, they sure do have a lot of coveted orbs and ancient cubes and magical stones in the superhero universes.
Often these glowing objects have been tucked away for millenniums, lest they fall into the wrong clutches of the obligatory fire-eyed entity that talks with a deep, mechanical voice and rages on about destroying all the planets, because thats what those guys aspire to do.
In Justice League, the MacGuffins are known as Mother Boxes, and there are three of them: one hidden in the deepest depths of the sea' one under heavy guard on Themyscira aka Paradise Island aka the home of the Amazons, and one buried by man. By the looks of it, man did the worst job of hiding a Mother Box, seeing as how a couple of old-timey Viking types apparently dug a six-foot hole and covered the Box with dirt.
We need a reason for Bruce WayneBatman Ben Affleck to recruit a new team of warriors, and the reason is a giant, evil creature named Steppenwolf a not particularly memorable CGI villain voiced by the great Ciaran Hinds has come to Earth to retrieve the Mother Boxes and impress his own mommy and, oh yes, destroy all worlds as we know them.
Doesnt take much imagination to know how its all going to turn out  but the fun in Justice League is in seeing Afflecks Batman and Gal Gadots Wonder Woman teaming up with Ezra Millers Barry AllenFlash, Jason Momoas Arthur CurryAquaman and Ray Fishers Victor StoneCyborg.
Its a putting-the-band-together origins movie, executed with great fun and energy.
About those actors playing the Fab Five with room for more to come. Theyre a wonderful and ridiculously good-looking group of performers, and they play well together. Thanks to a nifty screenplay by Chris Terrio and Joss Whedon and just the right mix of heavy-iosity and humor in the directorial tone of Zack Snyder, Justice League marks a solid step forward for the DC Comics Extended Universe.
Justice League opens in the immediate aftermath of the death of Superman. Early on, we hear Norwegian pop star Sigrid singing Leonard Cohens Everybody Knows and we see fear and violence and uncertainty on the streets of Gotham and Metropolis. At times its a bit confusing as to which city were visiting. Remember, in this particular universe, Metropolis looks a lot like Chicago with layers of CGI skyline, and Gotham City is just across the bay.
With the help of his ever-loyal butlerstrategist Alfred Jeremy Irons, Bruce Wayne recognizes a pattern of destruction at various points on Earth creepy robotic flying insect creatures are the key, leading him to realize the planet will soon be attacked. By the time he makes contact with Diana Prince, she says the attack isnt coming  its already here. Steppenwolf has invaded Paradise Island and has stolen one of the Mother Boxes.
Jason Momoa brings a bikerrock star swagger to the role of Aquaman, who initially finds Bruce Wayne amusing You actually dress up as a bat? and is hesitant to join the battle until his own underwater people are attacked. Ray Fishers Cyborg, still learning by the minute about his powers, is another reluctant warrior who eventually joins the team.
Theres no such hesitation on the part of Ezra Millers The Flash. He says YES! to Bruce Waynes pitch before Wayne can explain what the job entails. Like Tom Hollands Spider-Man in the Avengers universe, Miller in essence represents every teenage comic-book geek. Sure, they have their own impressive skill sets  but theyre fans of the big boys and girls, and theyre giddy about the prospect of joining the team.
Its maybe the least spoiler-y spoiler in modern movie history to reveal Henry Cavills Clark KentSuperman makes a return in Justice League. Ill not reveal the circumstances, but I will say The Flash spoke for me when he voiced concerns about the possibility of a Stephen King Pet Sematary scenario.
As terrific as the primary actors are in playing the superheroes and their alter egos, Justice League also benefits from an amazing roster of great veterans in smaller roles, from the aforementioned Hinds and Irons to Amy Adams as Lois Lane' Joe Morton as Dr. Silas Stone' Connie Nielsen as Queen Hippolyta' Billy Crudup as Barry Allens dad' Diane Lane as Martha Kent, and J.K. Simmons as Commissioner Gordon.
Love that J.K. Simmons, but it was a little jarring to see him beaming the Bat Signal into the skies above Gotham, 'cause I still remember him playing that editor from the Daily Bugle who was convinced Spider-Man was a menace to society.
The most likable warrior, the coolest warrior, the most magnetic warrior in Justice League is 
Wonder Woman. In rapid fashion, Gal Gadots WW has become my second-favorite superhero in all the comic book universes, second only to Robert Downey Jr.s Tony StarkIron Man.
And rapidly gaining.
