The Murphys are a tightly knit family, living in a lovely, two-story home on a quiet street in the Cincinnati area.
Steven Colin Farrell, a respected heart surgeon, is a handsome and quietly assured fellow sporting a thick beard with streaks of gray.
Anna Nicole Kidman an ophthalmologist of some renown, is brilliant and lovely, and more of a disciplinarian when it comes to their two children: teenager Kim Raffey Cassidy, who loves to sing, and younger brother Bob Sunny Suljic, who has a matter-of-fact way of avoiding chores and dodging a long-promised haircut.
The Murphys speak to one another in a deadpan manner that suggests they could be visitors from another planet, inhabiting human forms and trying to sound like Earthlings. Theres something creepy and unsettling about these people.
But in the world of Yorgos Lanthimos twisted and absurd and disturbing The Killing of a Sacred Deer, nearly everyone sounds like the Murphys. Save for the rare outburst of almost animalistic rage, theyre all on the same robotic plane of communication. Even when someone says, I love you, its in a flat, emotionless monotone.
This film is one extended metaphor. Not that I can claim to be sure what that metaphor was about at all times. One can imagine some viewers pinned to their seats, impressed to the heavens by the uncompromising boldness of a filmed work that no doubt wouldnt seem nearly as bizarre were it all taking place onstage.
One also can imagine some folks dashing for the exits, rolling their eyes at the pretentious nuttiness of it all.
The Greek writer-director Lanthimos Dogtooth, Lobster clearly has soaked up the great classical tragedies of his ancestors. The Killing of a Sacred Deer has direct references to the story of Agamemnon  but there are not-so-subtle nods to the New Testament as well.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comkilling-e.png?w'h" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comkilling-e.png?w" class"size-medium wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comkilling-e.png?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comkilling-e.png?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comkilling-e.png?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comkilling-e.png?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Barry Keoghan in 'The Killing of a Sacred Deer.'  A
Farrells Steven has befriended Martin Barry Keoghan, a teenage boy from the neighborhood. At first they meet in secret, with Steven gifting Martin with an expensive watch, and the two of them sharing walks and talks. Its almost as if Steven is a hitman, and Martin is his star protg. What are they up to?
Martin seems to worship Steven  but he also seems to have some sort of hold over him. We can feel Stevens irritation at Martins increasingly intrusive behavior, but it feels as if Steven is powerless to put an end to it.
Eventually Martin is invited to Stevens home for dinner, which leads to Stevens daughter Kim quickly falling in love with Martin. Kim claims Martin is hilarious and kind, despite all evidence to the contrary. The kid comes across as so disturbed, hes unusually creepy even in this Stepford suburb.
Steven finds it impossible to refuse an invitation to Martins house to have dinner with Martin and his widowed mother Alicia Silverstone, whos as bat-bleep crazy as everyone else in town.
A tragic mistake in Stevens past comes back to haunt him and his family in ways that defy logic and science and medicine. Steven must make an unimaginable sacrifice  but if he doesnt make that choice, it will result in an even more catastrophic fate for his family.
'The Killing of a Sacred Deer never hedges its bets, never takes its foot off the gas. The same can be said of the actors, from skilled veterans Farrell and Kidman to young Barry Keoghan, playing a psycho who might well have watched Psycho and identified with Norman Bates.
