Jeremy Renner doesnt put much movie-star mustard on his performance as a newspaper reporter in Kill the Messenger, and thats one of the reasons the work is so strong.
Sure, hes two-time Academy Award nominee Jeremy Renner, and he cant really disguise his handsomeness and his charisma beneath the questionable facial hair and the mid-s wardrobe, but Renners performance as investigative journalist Gary Webb is one of the more authentic portrayals of an old-fashioned, telephone-working, note-taking, go-to-where-the-story-takes-you reporter in recent memory.
Webbs story is a tragedy on a number of levels. Ill withhold specific spoilers about Webbs real life so as not to give away too much about this fictionalized version of true events. He was a hero and then he wasnt, and the toll his work took on his family was devastating.
Director Michael Cuesta lays out this fact-based drama as if hes seen All the Presidents Men more than a few times, and thats meant as a high compliment. Cuesta is executive producer of Showtimes Homeland and has directed numerous episodes, and we see touches of that series as well, especially in the scenes where Webb goes to Central America and finds himself in genuine peril while pursuing the story.
 Jeremy Renner says he's celebrating investigative reporters
Unlike Woodward and Bernstein, Renners Gary Webb wasnt working at an elite-level newspaper. In the mid-s, he was the lead investigative journalist at the thoroughly respectable but decidedly second-tier San Jose Mercury News, a paper that wasnt much concerned with national or international news when Webb was handed the lead of a lifetime  an accidentally leaked grand jury transcript that seemed to indicate the CIA was aligned with Nicaraguan rebels who were raising hundreds of millions of dollars by bringing drugs into the United States.
Its a bombshell so big it takes much effort for Webb to persuade his editor Mary Elizabeth Winstead and his publisher Oliver Platt theres even a shred of truth to it. Finally, he gets their blessing.
Andy Garcia has a juicy cameo as Norwin Meneses, an imprisoned drug lord in Nicaragua who gives Webb just enough information to keep the wheels turning. Michael Sheen shows up as a government official who meets with Webb at one of those hide-in-plain-sight Washington, D.C., locales where guys are always looking this way and that while talking to someone they shouldnt even be talking to.
Once the story is published, Webb is hailed as a hero. Hes courted by shows such as  Minutes and Dateline, and his family celebrates with champagne and hugs. Why, hes even named Journalist of the Year.
But this movie is called Kill the Messenger, and its as much about what happens to Webb after the story breaks than it is about his investigative heroics. 
The CIA goes after Webb. Other media outlets parse every claim in his stories. Hes the recipient of vague and not-so-vague threats from various operatives.
Although Cuesta is generally faithful to the real-life timeline Kill the Messenger is based on two nonfiction books, including one written by Webb, many of the scenes depicting the persecution of Webb come across as a bit too melodramatic. Its a checklist of familiar sequences, from the middle-of-the-night, well-intentioned phone calls You have no idea what youre getting into to the mysterious car parked just around the corner from the house, to the conference room scene where Gary realizes his editor, his publisher and the company attorneys are all getting cold feet and he bellows, Youre questioning MY ETHICS?!
Paz Vega overdoes it as a sexy source who plants kisses on Garys cheek as shes handing him government documents. Ray Liotta makes a cameo thats more confusing than enlightening. Rosemarie DeWitt seems to be the go-to choice to play beleaguered and yet not entirely sympathetic wives these days see Men, Women amp' Children.
At times Kill the Messenger goes to actual news footage. We see Ted Koppel commenting on Webbs reporting, and Al Sharpton and Maxine Waters at news conferences and rallies, demanding to know if the CIA really looked the other way as crack cocaine flooded the streets of South Central Los Angeles and other impoverished neighborhoods across the country.
The Washington Post, the L.A. Times and other media were more focused on discrediting Webbs reporting than in pursuing the Dark Alliance he wrote about. It took years for Webb to be vindicated.
Kill the Messenger is a solid tribute to his work. Its too bad it wasnt filmed and released in .
