Its too bad theres not more Gunther in Killing Gunther, but given Arnold Schwarzenegger is playing the Gunther everyone is trying to kill, its worth the wait.
In the meantime, we get an energetic, reasonably amusing, hit-and-miss action comedy from writer-director and SNL alum Taran Killam, who also gives a casually funny performance in the lead role.
Killam plays Blake, a contract hitman who puts together an unstoppable team of assassins in an effort to eliminate the baddest hitman of them all: one Rob Gunther Bendik Schwarzenegger.
Why get rid of Gunther? Well, what better way to burnish ones reputation as a hitman than to eliminate the most legendary of 'em all? Not to mention there will be more work for everyone if Gunther isnt around to lap up so many assignments. And if Blakes team eliminates Gunther, Blake will become the guy, because hell be the guy that killed the guy, right?
But why would assassins agree to be filmed, seeing as how theyre, you know, trained killers? These are the kinds of questions you have to set aside if youre going to appreciate Killing Gunther.
The conceit  and its hardly a fresh one  is that Blake hires a documentary crew to shadow the killers so there will be irrefutable evidence ifwhen they track down Gunther and erase him from the face of the Earth.
Each member of the colorful comedic team not that they think of themselves as funny has a particular set of skills. The group includes:
 Donald Donnie Piznowski, an explosives expert of sorts played by the very funny Bobby Moynihan another former SNL cast member.
 Mia and Barold Bellakalakova Allison Tolman from the first season of the FX series Fargo and Ryan Gaul, respectively, who are Russian and twins and assassins.
 Sanaa Little Nightmare Fariouza Hannah Simone, a beautiful and extremely lethal Iranian sniper whose first professional kill was at the age of . She was trained by her helicopter dad, who wears a T-shirt proclaiming himself Sanaas  fan and cheers like an obnoxious Soccer Dad when his daughter scores a direct hit.
Yes, its an incredibly tasteless and offensive premise, and if youre not amused by such dark humor, you arent going to dig Killing Gunther.
 Aaron Yoos Yong, whose specialty is poison.
 Izzat aka The Crusher Amir Talai, who has an oversized cyborg arm that would be the envy of Arnolds Terminator.
Together, theyre not exactly the A-Team. Maybe the B-movie team?
Killing Gunther is filled with explosive action. As a director, Killam displays a veterans knack for shooting the shootouts and fisticuffs, nearly all of it carried out in slapstick, nearly Three Stooges-level comedic fashion.
Arnolds Gunther doesnt appear until deep in the story  but he arrives just in the nick of time, as the humor well was running pretty dry right about then. Schwarzenegger has a great time hamming it up, and we have almost as much fun watching him have fun.
