We begin with the ending of La La Land and this is giving nothing away, because the ending is like a brilliant short film unto itself  beautiful and heart-stopping and bold and different and wow.
So many movies, even many of the good ones, end with a predictable flourish, whether its the climactic battle sequence followed by a brief epilogue' the grand romantic gesture topped off with a callback to a running joke' the wounded hero or Lone Survivor sitting on the bed of the ambulance or the fire truck with a blanket wrapped around the shoulders' or the obligatory soaring camera pulling up, up and away from the final scene, until we have a birds eye view of the entire city.
La La Land writer-director Damien Chazelle Whiplash is a blazing talent, and in the final act of this exhilarating, energized, beautiful and stylized song-and-dance homage to the great studio musicals of the s and s, we are blown away by a sequence we will always think of, always see in our minds eye, when we think of this movie.
The frequently paired Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone deliver genuine movie-star turns as Sebastian and Mia, two struggling aspiring artists  he a jazz musician, she an actress  who would be considered young in just about any universe outside of Hollywood, but find themselves running out of time against the unforgiving ticking clock of showbiz that says if you havent made it after a few years, you might as well go home.
La La Land is set in the present day, but it often seems to be taking place in another era. The dapper Sebastian favors earth-tone suits and ties of brown and gold, while Mia steps out in a dress of such bright yellow it would shame the sunrise.
As they meet cute and then meet cute again and begin the classic courtship of verbal fencing that leads to tentative gestures of affection that leads to  well, you know how the song goes, Sebastian and Mia often break into song or engage in delightfully choreographed dance numbers, as the real world fades into the background and we are welcomed into a dreamlike fantasy.
La La Land opens with a huge splash, an elaborate production number titled Another Day of Sun, set in the middle of a seemingly endless traffic jam on the freeway. One can easily envision the Broadway version of this number if and when La La Land makes the popular movie-to-stage transition. Its an incredibly ambitious sequence featuring dozens of performers executing a series of singing and dancing handoffs with the grace and skill of an Olympic relay team.
From that great big opener, La La Land effortlessly transitions to a more intimate, character-driven scope.
Mia works as a barista on a studio lot. Its the ultimate in nose-pressed-to-the-window employment, for Mia finds herself serving coffee to movie stars and catching glimpses of Hollywood literally just outside the door, and shes often scurrying out of work to race to another audition  but at the end of the day, when its clear the casting directors will be going in another direction, Mia is surrounded by reminders it hasnt exactly worked out since she left home years ago with stars in her eyes.
Meanwhile, the keyboard purist Sebastian stubbornly clings to his dream of opening an old-school jazz joint  but he has to make ends meet by plinking out milquetoast standards in lounges and playing in cheesy s cover bands.
And then, at just right moment or is it just the wrong moment?, Sebastian and Mia fall in love, and Los Angeles reveals itself to be a glorious, fantastic, Cinemascope landscape  a star-filled canvas on which the dashing leading man and the lovely leading lady can paint their love story.
Emma and Ryan wont make you forget Fred and Ginger. Theyre quite good, but it feels a little bit as if theyre the best contestants in the history of Dancing with the Stars and not in the same league as the magical dance duos of an era gone by.
Thats OK. The songs and score from Justin Hurwitz with lyrics by Pasek and Paul carry the day.
Chazelles script is hopeful and sweet and clever and rich. His direction is innovative and captivating. Linus Sandgrens cinematography is Oscar-level.
Gosling and Stone are magical together. J.K. Simmons and Rosemarie DeWitt lend their grace and presence to minor but memorable roles. John Legend manages to make us forget hes John Legend as Sebastians former music partner, who offers Sebastian a devils ransom to compromise his musical beliefs.
Theres been so much film festival and critical hype about La La Land for so long. Forget all that. Its not going to change your life. Its not the reinvention of the movie musical.
Its simply wonderful.
