So heres Dame Maggie Smith in her ninth decade, still running thespian circles around most actors half or a third or dare we say a quarter of her age.
Having recently wrapped her magnificent run as the snooty, old-money Dowager Countess in the much-adored Downton Abbey TV series, Smith gives an equally delightful performance as a seemingly half-mad homeless woman who avoids bathing, yells at children, tells endless tall tales and often cant be bothered with going inside to use the bathroom.
Smith is literally The Lady in the Van, Nicholas Hytners self-consciously artsy and somewhat slight but tartly funny and occasionally wise adaptation of Alan Bennetts play of the same name. In fact, Smith played this same part in a stage production in , and in a BBC radio play in .
The story, were told, is rooted firmly in Bennetts own life. One day in the s, a stubborn, beyond eccentric, often ill-tempered old lady named Mary Shepherd parked her dilapidated, overstuffed old van in front of Bennetts North London home, was eventually allowed to park in Bennetts driveway  and stayed there some  years.
In an interesting dramatic conceit I sometimes found more cloying and obvious than clever, we get two versions of Alan Bennett, both played by Alex Jennings, who gives two fine performances. Given todays movie-magic technology, both versions appear onscreen at the same time, seemingly talking with one another and interacting with each other, and it doesnt feel the least bit faked.
One Alan Bennett is the man experiencing his own life, whether hes conversing with neighbors who arent shy about telling him they were underwhelmed by his latest play, dealing with Marys latest outrageous antics or tending to his aging and ailing mother.
The other Alan Bennett is the writer who takes a step back from every breathing moment of his life and considers its potential as possible material.
Often, the two Alans are at odds with one another. Theyre like twee, intellectual, Brit versions of the angel and the devil on Pintos shoulders in National Lampoons Animal House, as Pinto considers whether to take advantage of a passed-out teenager. Now THERES a scene that probably wouldnt make the final cut of a movie made in .
Alan is not allowed inside Marys van, which is crammed to the roof with old newspapers, soiled clothes, knick-knacks and some substances too foul to mention. But every time she kicks open the doors to claim shes dying or to terrorize the neighborhood children or make some outlandish claim about her lifes adventures, Alan gets a glimpse inside that van and a glimpse inside Marys life, real andor imagined. He becomes fascinated by her and perhaps even grows fond of her.
As Smith did in Abbey, she takes a character we probably wouldnt want to spend much time with in real life and turns her into someone we thoroughly enjoy onscreen  especially when shes calling out members of polite society on their B.S., or allowing us to see just a faded but still shining glimmer of the woman she once was, a woman whose heart once might have been bursting with a love for life.
Theres more than a hint of darkness in The Lady in the Van. The great Jim Broadbent drops in as a mysterious stranger with no good intentions. At the very start of the film, we see blood on the vans windshield, and Ill say no more.
Mostly, though, The Lady in the Van is about a talented young writer still wrestling with how to draw upon his own experiences without exploiting others  and its about the boundless talents of Maggie Smith, sometimes chewing up the screen, sometimes saying volumes simply by sitting very, very still, with a perfectly perfect expression on her face.
