You might know Greta Gerwig as the charming and quirky and delightful actress from films such as To Rome With Love, Frances Ha and Jackie, and what a fine and impressive career shes made for herself as a performer  but based on her work as the writer-director of Lady Bird, this is my request:
Please write and direct another  films, Greta Gerwig.
Set in the Sacramento of the early s and inspired by Gerwigs experiences growing up there, Lady Bird has a distinct indie-movie vibe without falling into any typical indie-movie pitfalls. It is smart without being smug, insightful without being condescending, funny without being mean-spirited and genuinely moving.
Its unique and original and fresh and wonderful, and can you tell I loved it?
Saoirse Ronan Atonement, Brooklyn, who is only  but is already on the its only a matter of time Oscar fast track, delivers a pure and honest performance as high school senior Christine McPherson, who has rechristened herself Lady Bird because she finds her given name, and her given life, boring.
Lady Bird is a bright but not particularly accomplished student at an all-girls Catholic school. Shes not a total outcast, but shes not one of the popular kids. She has one truly close friend, Julie Beanie Feldstein, funny and natural and terrific, who is a step below even Lady Birds decidedly average placement in the high school hierarchy.
To our great good fortune, Steppenwolf Theatre legends Laurie Metcalf and Tracy Letts play Lady Birds parents.
Lady Birds mother Marion works double shifts as a nurse in a psychiatric hospital and clearly loves her family which includes an adopted son named Miguel, played by Jordan Rodrigues, but wow is Marion rough on her daughter. We can understand why Lady Birds secret dream is to get accepted at a college on the East Coast, as far away from Marion as possible.
Lady Birds father Larry is a sweet but tragically sad man, trapped under the blanket of clinical depression. Larry has learned to pick and choose his battles and his causes, because he knows he has only so much emotional strength to spend.
Theres no level of acting on a higher plane than what Metcalf and Letts achieve in this film. This is what greatness looks like.
Lucas Hedges Manchester by the Sea plays Lady Birds first serious boyfriend, Danny. When their relationship takes a surprising turn, its handled with grace and intelligence, and it feels just right.
Even the beautiful and wealthy and superficial and popular and envied-by-all character Odeya Rush is portrayed in a way that transcends the usual high school movie stereotypes. We and Lady Bird see her future before she does, and theres something sad and authentic about that.
Gerwigs screenplay is a treasure trove of pitch-perfect scenes, whether its the relatively straightforward, high-school comedy material, or the brutally raw mother-daughter confrontations that will undoubtedly leave emotional bruises on both participants for decades to come.
Lady Birds life adventures are just beginning as Lady Bird the movie draws to a close.
Perhaps Gerwig will pick up Lady Birds story in a follow-up film. Or maybe shell say goodbye to these characters and move on to something else.
Either way, Im sure we will remember this film as the first step in a long and impressive career.
