Clocking in at just  minutes, The Lazarus Effect has one of the shortest running times in recent years.
And yet.
If only Olivia Wildes character in Lazarus had run into Scarlett Johanssons character in last years equally abysmal Lucy. At least then we would could have seen what would happen when a woman who has tapped into the brains full capacity, giving her amazing but dangerous superpowers, runs into ANOTHER woman who has tapped into the brains full capacity, giving HER amazing but dangerous superpowers.
The Lazarus Effect is nothing but a cheap horror film cloaked in scientific mumbo-jumbo. The likable Mark Duplass is Frank, a brilliant, workaholic medical researcher leading a small team of scientists who have been working in a university laboratory for three years on a super-secret project to develop a serum that will enable doctors to resuscitate recently deceased patients long enough to find a cure or a spare heart or whatever it takes to give them the second chance everyone deserves, as Frank puts it.
In other words, Frank isPLAYING GOD. Doesnt he know what happens to scientists in the movies who think they can play God?!?!
The team:
The plucky and sweet Zoe Olivia Wilde, Franks fiancee.
Niko Donald Glover, who apparently had a fling with Zoe when they were in college and is still in love with her.
Clay Evan Peters, the obligatory video game-loving, rules-breaking, potato-chip munching genius.
Eva Sarah Bolger, a college student who has been assigned to video the experiments as the team gets closer to finding a serum that works.
" data-medium-file"" data-large-file"" class"size-full wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comfilmreviewthelazaruseffect..jpg" alt"Mark Duplass from left Donald Glover, Evan Peters  and Sarah Bolger appear in a scene from quot'The Lazarus Effectquot'.  AP PhotoRelativity Media "   
Mark Duplass from left Donald Glover, Evan Peters and Sarah Bolger appear in a scene from 'The Lazarus Effect.'  AP PhotoRelativity Media
The big breakthrough comes when the team is able to resuscitate a long-dead dog named Rocky. From the get-go, its clear Rocky aint the pup he used to be' he has no appetite, and he wavers between listlessness and Cujo-esque aggressiveness.
So what do Zoe and Frank do? They take Rocky home to keep an eye on him! Thats because in movies such as this, exceedingly intelligent scientists have to display all the intelligence and logic of a bikini-clad bimbo in a s splatter film who hears a suspicious noise in the basement after the power goes out and goes downstairs, saying, Whos there? Come on, this isnt funny any more!'
 for those of you who have seen, like, four scary movies in your whole life. You know when someone looks under the bed and nothing is there, when he turns around, BOOM! Gotcha! You know a dream sequence is likely to involve a silent little girl standing at the end of a long corridor. You know lights will go out and elevators wont work, and no matter how much noise and madness occurs in an enclosed area in the dead of night, nobody will ever hear anything and call the cops.
The poster and the advertising for The Lazarus Effect give the following away, so here goes. When Zoe is electrocuted and conventional methods to revive her fail, Frank reaches for the magic serum, even though theyve all seen what it did to poor Rocky the dog. Suffice to say when Zoe is brought back to life, it takes about five minutes for everyone to realize their mistake.
And then they go back to doing stupid things and isolating themselves so theyre vulnerable.
From that point forward, The Lazarus Effect plays like a throwaway horror flick. The talented cast does what they can with the underdeveloped characters theyve been handed, and theres some decent cinematography and a few nifty special effects. We end on a note leaving things open for a sequel, and thats some mighty optimistic thinking on the part of the filmmakers.
