For about an hour, I had such a Faith of Leap!
I was thoroughly enchanted by this girl-power animated film about a French orphan in the s who dreams of becoming a star ballerina. Loved the vibrant colors, loved the sweet and inspirational story, loved the characters, loved the voice-work from the ensemble cast.
And then we got a weird and out-of-place and slightly disturbing extended sequence in which an adult character tries to murder a child character.
Literally. She literally tries to kill her.
Its one thing when a wicked witch or a big bad wolf or some other fairy tale villain tries to eliminate a child protagonist. Its quite another when an adult in the real world, so to speak, goes off on a mad rampage and chases a kid around Paris with the express intent of knocking her off.
Eliminate that sequence, and Leap! would have been one of my favorite animated films of recent years. Even with that tone-deaf stumble, overall its a lovely and refreshingly breezy adventure with an adorably plucky lead, an infectious soundtrack and arresting visuals.
Elle Fanning does wonderful voice work as -year-old Felicie, who lives in an orphanage in the province of Brittany that looks like an idyllic mansion on the outside but is cold and forbidding on the inside. All the orphans sleep side by side on cots in a cavernous hall.
Eventually, though, Felicie and Victor do make it to Paris. The housemaid Odette Carly Rae Jepsen, a former dancer with a pronounced limp from the injury that ended her career, takes in Felicie and encourages her to pursue her dreams. Meanwhile, Victor gets a job in the workshop of none other than the great Gustave Eiffel. Way to assimilate in the big city, -year-old orphan kids!
Felicie finds herself in competition with the wealthy and quite bratty Camille Maddie Ziegler, who has been in training for the Paris Opera Ballet since she was old enough to walk. Camilles mother Kate McKinnon is a horrific monster  a demanding and obsessive stage mom whose moods range from angry to seething to bitter. Little wonder her daughter is so brittle, nasty and insecure.
At first the companys uncompromising director, Merante Terrence Scammell, comes across as a similarly intimidating and callous character  but the more we get to know Merante, the more we like him. Other than Felicie, he was my favorite character in the film.
Leap! follows a predictable underdog-story pattern, with Felicie scoring small triumphs, suffering major setbacks, undergoing a crisis of character, and eventually  well, you know the rest. The anachronistic pop songs actually work quite nicely with the scenes of classical dancing, and will most likely help hold the attention of the little ones.
Also, points for any film that finds voice roles for Carly Rae Jepsen and Mel Brooks.
