For a Tom Hardy junkie like myself, seeing Hardy playing twin British gangsters  one straight, one gay  in s London is about as good as a premise gets.
The good news: Hardy creates two memorable characters, making some bold and always entertaining if not entirely successful choices.
The bad news: Somehow, the fictionalized version of the terrifying, violent and twisted Krays manages to be pedestrian and derivative for long stretches.
At times Legend is achingly obvious, even with its musical selections. Any movie that cues a wedding scene with Chapel of Love, and hammers home one characters consuming, suicidal tendencies to the sounds of Make the World Go Away is practically announcing its not striving for subtlety or greatness.
'Black Mass' earlier this year, were watching a great actor playing a brutal sociopath in this instance, sociopaths plural with neither the colorful madness, the moral ambiguity or the convenientcontradictory codes of loyalty exhibited by gangsters in such films as Goodfellas and of course The Godfather.
These guys are just thugs with limited worldviews.
Through the miracle of modern-day film technology and a few scenes where its obvious a body double is being used when the twins hug or fight, Hardy is given the platform to plausibly play both Reggie and Ronnie Kray, the infamous twin brothers who ruled Londons hardscrabble East End in the s and s. Even a scene in which the brothers sit side by side and make contact with each other is almost seamless.
And in large part thanks to Hardys enormous versatility, we believe Reggie and Ronnie as two very different, very distinct characters. Armie Hammer did fine work as both Winklevoss twins in The Social Network, but lets face it, they were two of the same.
Hardys Reggie looks like a bulked-up version of a young Paul Newman  a handsome, stylish devil who favors flashy jewelry and uses his cigarette andor cigar as a prop as he presides over a growing empire that includes running a nightclub and casino, shaking down local business owners, and protecting his turf in bloody battles with gangsters from the other side of town. A scene in which Reggie and his twin brother face off against a mob of rivals revels in the violence and dares us not to laugh. Ill admit it was darkly funny.
Reggies twin Ronnie is of course the same age, but everyone treats him as the unpredictable, unhinged, oddball younger brother  and that's putting it mildly. In the world of Legend, Ronnies quite open about his homosexuality, and even most of his fellow macho gangsters seem to accept it.
The problem isnt Ronnie being gay. The problem is Ronnie is mentally ill, and when hes off his medication, he goes from eccentric to flat-out psycho.
Hardy dons thick glasses and flashy jewelry, slicks his hair back and even affects a different speech cadence as Ronnie. Its a comically mesmerizing performance, even if it doesnt always seem to fit the ugly acts of violence committed by Ronnie. He seems to hate everyone who comes between him and his twin brother, from the Krays arrogant but pragmatic business advisor Leslie Payne David Thewlis to Frances Shea Emily Browning, the fetching, freckle-faced local girl who becomes Reggies wife.
Writer-director Brian Helgeland L.A. Confidential makes the curious choice to have Frances act as the narrator for Legend, which only manages to mute our involvement, as she often talks about being an outsider in her own relationship, what with Reggies reckless criminal activities and his undying devotion to a family including the twins mother, an overly protective piece of work and sometimes abusive treatment of Frances.
Its as if Karen from Goodfellas or Kay from The Godfather narrated those films from their points of view.
Legend is a bad title for a film that doesnt quite succeed in relating how these brothers became legends. They come across more as a couple of nasty, ruthless, deeply dysfunctional thugs who seemed to know it was only a matter of time before their careless, violent, not particularly sophisticated ways brought them to their knees.
