No doubt the budget for The Limehouse Golem was but a pittance of the monetary muscle behind IT, that OTHER scary movie debuting this weekend, but this nasty little Victorian London horror film has more than a few blood-soaked charms of its own.
Based on a novel by Peter Ackroyd and directed with style by Juan Carlos Medina with an effectively sharp script from Kick-Ass scribe Jane Goldman, The Limehouse Golem benefits greatly from two terrific performances: the invaluable and ever-dry Bill Nighy as a Scotland Yard detective, and Douglas Booth as a cross-dressing, music hall performer of considerable note so to speak who might just hold the key to a series of grisly murders terrorizing the city of London.
This is one of those historical scary movies combining real-life events and people with fictional scenes and wholly invented characters.
Booths character of Dan Leno is based on a real-life music hall singer and comedian who achieved some success but later went mad. George Gissing played by Morgan Watkins was an actual writer of the time.
Will it matter if you know which portions are true and which are pure fiction? Nah. The sure bet is virtually nothing we see here transpired in this manner in the London of  or in the flashback sequences. The Limehouse Golem murders, while obviously influenced in some measure by the Jack the Ripper case, are pure fiction. So lets get on with it.
Nighy plays Inspector John Kildare, who is in the latter stages of a career best described as spotty. Kildare has been assigned to the Limehouse Golem murders  but only after a number of more distinguished investigators have failed to solve the Ripper-like series of killings. Kildare has been handed the case so he can become the fall guy when the murders remain unsolved. He is aware of this, but it does not deter him from trying to figure out this unholy mess.
Limehouse refers to a notorious district in Victorian London rife with crime and poverty. The Golem is an often frightening creature from Jewish folklore.
When the failed writer John Cree Sam Reid is found dead, suspicion immediately falls to his wife Elizabeth Olivia Cooke. But while investigating that crime, Kildare begins to wonder if the murder of John Cree is actually the work of 
The Limehouse Golem!
In flashback sequences, we learn about the background of Elizabeth, once known as the music hall singer Little Lizzie. Were introduced to Dan Leno, who achieved his greatest fame in cross-dressing parts. And we meet any number of colorful characters, including a friendly stage manager Eddie Marsan from Ray Donovan and a horny little person Graham Hughes.
Meanwhile, in present day  that is to say,  London  Kildares investigation becomes increasingly complex and sometimes hard to follow, as he begins to wonder if the victim John Cree himself could have been the Limehouse Golem. But there are a number of other suspects, including Karl Marx Henry Goodman  yes, THAT Karl Marx.
Nighy leaves behind his trick box of winks and sly smiles and sarcasm for a relatively straightforward performance, and wisely so. As outlandish as the material can get in The Limehouse Golem, this is serious stuff. The film is dedicated to the late Alan Rickman, originally cast as Inspector Kildare.
Set design, costumes and production values are all first-rate, befitting a film of much larger scope.
