They could have called this Google Earth: the Movie.
What a wonderful year this has been for movies Based on True Stories andor Inspired by Actual Events, from Sully to Hacksaw Ridge, from Queen of Katwe to Whiskey Tango Foxtrot, from Eddie the Eagle to Southside with You, from The Infiltrator to Bleed for This.
Add to that stellar roster Lion, a story sure to reduce four out of five moviegoers to tears in the final act  and those waterworks are honestly and legitimately earned.
Director Garth Davis weaves a magical tale grounded in reality and Dev Patel delivers an intense, laser-focused performance as Saroo Brierly, who is separated from his family as a very small boy in India, is adopted by an Australian couple  and a quarter-century later relies on Google Earth and undying determination to chart a course back to his family and his homeland.
Its not as clear-cut as it might sound. Saroo was all of years old when a chain of tragic circumstances left him alone, a thousand miles from his remote and tiny village. Even when Saroo starts remembering gauzy fragments from the distant past, he doesnt know his real name, he doesnt know his mothers name and he doesnt know the name of the tiny outpost where he was born  in a country with a population of more than . billion.
Lion is really two distinct stories of two incredible journeys, and each-half movie is remarkable in its own way.
The first half centers on the youngSaroo Sunny Pawar, who captures your heart instantly, who pleads with his older brother Guddu Abhishek Bharate to tag along on a long train ride.
Saroo falls asleep. When he wakes up at a train station, his brother is nowhere to be found. Saroo wanders around, calling his brothers name to no avail, and eventually boards a train car, hoping it will take him home  but in fact the train is going in the opposite direction.
The little boy finds himself in the city of Calcutta, a thousand miles from home. He doesnt speak the local language. He joins the legions of children living on the streets, barely survives some harrowing encounters, winds up in an overcrowded orphanage thats just a slight step better than living on the streets  and is adopted by an Australian couple Nicole Kidman and David Wenham.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?w'h" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?w" class"size-medium wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?w'h" alt"An Australian woman Nicole Kidman adopts a lost Indian boy Sunny Pawar in quot'Lion.quot'  The Weinstein Co." width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comlionmarkrogers-lg.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
An Australian woman Nicole Kidman adopts a lost Indian boy Sunny Pawar in 'Lion.'  The Weinstein Co.
Its a semi-happy ending  Saroo is certainly more fortunate than the vast majority of the millions upon millions of lost and abandoned and unwanted Indian children who will never find a true home  but as the plane takes off and India recedes in the distance, it seems all but certain hell never see his brother or his mother or his birthplace again.
Flash forward two decades. Saroo now played by Patel is an intelligent, handsome, self-assured, Australianized young man with zero recollection of his childhood and almost no cultural attachment to his homeland. While Saroos upbringing was hardly idyllic, mostly due to the heartaches caused by his deeply troubled adopted brother Mantosh Divian Ladwa, he was raised in middle-class comfort and he was loved and supported by his parents. Hes good.
Except for one thing. Saroo never quite feels  percent comfortable in his own shoes, his own life. When Saroos powers of recall are trigged by a sense memory, he becomes obsessed with reconnecting with his biological family.
While the first half of Lion is a sprawling, often intense story of a lost little boy on the move and in search of his home, the second half is a much smaller but equally intense mystery and character study, with Saroo shutting out his parents and his supportive girlfriend Rooney Mara, terrific as usual, losing his professional ambition and cloistering himself with his laptop and his charts and his notes, as pushes himself to remember, remember, remember ANYTHING that can take him one step closer to home.
Nicole Kidman gives a powerful and moving performance as Saroos adoptive mother, who loves her son with every molecule of her being but comes to understand his quest. Its as good as anything shes done in the last decade.
Lion is a beautifully told, uplifting story of courage and determination.
Its also a pretty great advertisement for Google Earth.
