We start with clips of the impossibly young and fresh-faced likes of Chevy Chase, Gilda Radner, John Belushi and Jane Curtin as they audition for the show that would become Saturday Night Live.
Its like watching footage of the Beatles circa . They dont know whats coming, but we sure do.
Cut to a montage of news footage of the last  years, set to The Revolution Will Not Be Televised by Gil Scott-Heron.
The revolution will not go better with Coke  raps Scott-Heron. The revolution will be no rerun, brothers  the revolution will be live.
Electric stuff. Feels like were in for a fresh and cutting-edge take on the Saturday Night Live revolution.
And at times, Live From New York! delivers on that promise, especially when director Bao Nguyen focuses on the shows impactful political satire and how it has shaped the national debate over the last four decades, from Chevy Chase turning Gerald Ford into a stumbling clod to Dana Carveys affectionately loopy take on George H.W. Bush to Darrell Hammonds devastatingly effective channeling of Al Gore to Tina Feys perfect impersonation of Sarah Palin.
Unfortunately, most of the film is a fairly standard chronology in which we see glimpses of familiar bits and hear from an admittedly impressive array of alums and guest hosts who offer sincere but in most cases not particularly new insights and memories.
 anniversary celebration, cresting with that marathon of a TV special, it just doesnt feel particularly necessary.
Nguyen employs an irritating technique of starting a sound bite and letting it play while showing us meaningless cover shots. Either we waste time and effort trying to identify the celebrity voice a maddening game that takes us out of the moment, or we have to wait to see the face and the behind-the-scenes title of the person speaking.
Why? Why not just show us whos doing the talking from the start, so we have the context in which to appreciate what theyre saying?
Of course its cool to hear SNL guru Lorne Michaels, Alec Baldwin, Steve Martin, Chris Rock, Jimmy Fallon, Amy Poehler, Tina Fey, Will Ferrell and dozens of others share a memory or two, but weve heard many of them talk about SNL before. I found myself wishing Live From New York! had spent more time on the fascinating interviews with the writers and longtime staffers.
Nguyen does fine work illustrating how SNL went from the ultimate outsider show to the ultimate institution, stopping along the way to touch briefly on controversies such as Andrew Dice Clays appearance as host in a TV debate from the time, Michaels does an excellent job of defending his choice to Sinead OConnor ripping up a photo of the pope to criticisms about the lack of diversity in the cast and among the writing staff.
Leslie Jones defends her Slavery bit and pats herself on the back for being cutting edge and brilliant. Before we can get much in the way of counterpoint, its on to the next overhaul of the cast, the next controversy, the next memory courtesy of a showbiz legend.
With a running time of minutes, Live From New York! couldnt possibly cover all that SNL has meant to the culture since the mid-s. Maybe it shouldnt have tried. Some of the more interesting segments here easily could have been fleshed out into a full documentary.
