Lucky, here comes Logan Lucky, a breezy and clever heist romp with no relation to the other two movies, which have no relation to one another. Its just a weird coincidence to have movies called Logan and Lucky and Logan Lucky all in the same year.
To quote the Eagles: Are you with me so far?
Directed by the versatile and prolific Steven Soderbergh, who since retiring from feature films a few years ago has been busy directing the fantastic HBO movie Behind the Candelabra and the brilliant TV series The Knick and working as the cinematographer for Magic Mike XXL, Logan Lucky actually has quite a bit in common with Soderberghs star-studded hit Oceans .
Trade in the pearl-toothed slicksters played by George Clooney and Brad Pitt for a couple of twang-talkin dirt-kickers played by Channing Tatum and Adam Driver, move the setting from glitzy Las Vegas to down-home North Carolina, and Logan Lucky plays like a scaled-down, biscuits-and-gravy take on the Ocean's movies.
In fact, a TV news anchor reporting on the heist in Logan Lucky refers to it as the Ocean's -Eleven caper.
Tatum a Soderbergh favorite gives one of the most natural and likable performances of his career as Jimmy Logan, a former high school football star with a slightly softened but still hulking physique, and a noticeable limp from the injury that cut short his gridiron career.
Its the limp  an unreported pre-existing condition  that gets Jimmy fired from his job with a crew repairing a giant sinkhole directly underneath the Charlotte Motor Speedway.
This leaves Jimmy unemployed, nearly broke and in desperate need of a quick score so he can prove fiscal stability and maintain partial custody of his adorable and precocious daughter Sadie Farrah MacKenzie. The timing is especially crucial because Jimmys no-nonsense ex-wife Katie Holmes has just announced she and her hubby are about to move the family to West Virginia. Shes ACHING for Jimmy to give her an opening to essentially remove him from Sadies life.
Brainstorm! Jimmy hatches a brazen plan to steal the cash from the speedways underground network of money-transferring pneumatic tubes. When the registers at concessions throughout the enormous stadium fill up, cashiers drop the money in the tubes, and the bills are funneled into a giant vault.
Its not so different from Danny Oceans scheme to boost a fortune from the Bellagios underground vault. And just as Danny recruited a band of misfit associates with checkered pasts to pull off the elaborate heist, Jimmy enlists the aid of similarly dysfunctional and quite hilarious goofballs, including:
 Jimmys brother Clyde Adam Driver, a sad-sack bartender who lost the lower part of one arm on a tour of duty in Iraq and sports a ridiculously ill fitting prosthetic that looks like it was made for the Hulk.
 Their sister Mellie Riley Keough, a sharp-tongued hairdresser with behind-the-wheel skills just a notch below those of Baby Driver.
 The muscled, heavily tattooed explosives expert Joe Bang Daniel Craig, so named because this is the kind of movie unafraid to call a slightly mad bomber Joe Bang. As it happens, Joe Bang is behind bars, so the Logan brothers concoct a plan to break him out of prison so he can participate in the robbery, and then break him back IN before anyone notices hes missing.
 Joe Bangs idiot brothers Brian Gleeson and Jack Quaid, born-again crooks who now require a moral reason to rationalize any further criminal activity.
Working from a smart if obviously derivative screenplay by first-time screenwriter Rebecca Blunt and acting as his own cinematographer, Soderbergh deftly juggles multiple, interweaving storylines and sprinkles in a number of oddball characters, including Seth MacFarlanes obnoxious energy-drink mogul, who is sponsoring a car in the Coca-Cola  at the speedway' Hillary Swanks socially stiff FBI agent, and Dwight Yoakams image-conscious prison warden.
Some of the set pieces have at best tenuous connections to the main story line. Rioting prisoners take guards hostage  and then present a list of demands that will be tough to meet, due to George R.R. Martins 'Game of Thrones' books falling behind the timeline of the HBO series. No really. A childrens pageant turns into a John Denver sing-along, and thats the fourth movie this year after Alien: Covenant and Free Fire and Okja to prominently feature the gentle, s folk-rock musings of the late John Denver.
Even with all the deep-fried humor and the sometimes over-the-hilltop accents Driver in particular pushes it with his vocal tics, but his accent grew on me, Logan Lucky almost never feels condescending or Hollywood smug. More than one of these seemingly simple folks turns out to be whip-smart in a certain fashion.
Not everything works. MacFarlanes turn as a Brit blowhard comes across as forced the dollar-store wig and cheesy mustache dont help. And even when all is revealed in classic Ocean's fashion, it feels as if a piece or two of the jigsaw puzzle is still on the floor somewhere.
Mostly, though, Logan Lucky is great fun and one of the most purely entertaining movies of the year.
