Nearly two decades after Kate Beckinsale and Chloe Sevigny played best friends in The Last Days of Disco, Whit Stillmans sly and funny exploration of the club scene in Manhattan in the early s, theyre playing best friends again in Stillmans Love amp' Friendship, one of the sharpest and funniest Jane Austen adaptations in recent memory.
They should play best friends more than once every  years or so.
 century Great Britain  even as she casually and cruelly insults nearly everyone she encounters and schemes with diabolical precision to get what she wants when she wants it, without pausing for one second to lament the lives she so easily destroys.
While Beckinsale gets most of the deliciously wicked speeches and has the much showier role, Segivny is equally stellar in a lower key as Mrs. Alicia Johnson, an American who married an older Brit the wonderful Stephen Fry for a huge upgrade in the class system, even though she despises the poor fellow and openly roots for him to die, die, die already.
And Mrs. Johnson is the nicer of the two friends.
The recently widowed Lady Susan glides into the country residence of her late husbands brother Charles Justin Edwards and his wife Catherine Emma Greenwell, who is perhaps the only one in this story with a clear grasp of just how evil Lady Susan can be.
Lady Susan has a plan: Shell seduce Catherines younger brother Reginald Xavier Samuel, a charming but not terribly bright fellow who will think its HIS idea to propose to the lady. See, the thing of it is, Lady Susan doesnt really have any money to speak of, and she needs to marry well and to marry as soon as its acceptable in the eyes of society.
Morfydd Clark is Lady Susans hapless daughter Frederica, who runs away from school and shows up at the estate, much to the exasperation of her mother, who basically regards her child as a pesky nuisance who doesnt have the good sense to grow up and go away forever. Lady Susan schemes to set her daughter up with Sir James Martin Tom Bennett, who is a blithering idiot but DOES have class and money, which is all that matters to Lady Susan.
Bennetts performance as the ridiculous but somehow endearing Sir James is a thing to behold. On one of the many occasions in which Sir James says something stupid and is called out for it, he says, I stand corrected.
Beat.
It happens a lot.
Indeed it does, Sir James.
Love amp' Friendship has the air of one of those movies where you sense the actors had the time of their lives on the set, what with getting to wear the garb of the time and reciting such sublime dialogue and performing such exquisitely choreographed scenes. Stillman has done a marvelous job of adapting Austens novella 'Lady Susan' and capturing the authors tart and rapier-sharp sense of humor, which doesnt always translate to the seemingly infinite number of cinematic and television Austen-based works.
The costumes and the lighting and the sets in Love amp' Friendship are exquisite. Even though it takes place more than a century prior to Downton Abbey, if youre still missing Abbey, youll most likely enjoy the stuffing out of this movie.
 century or upper-class Brits some  years prior.
