Without warning or warrant, cops burst into a Virginia home in the middle of the night, dragging a pregnant woman and her husband out of their beds, hauling them away and locking them up behind bars.
Their crime: They were an interracial couple in the wrong place at a very, very wrong time.
Jeff Nichols well-filmed but curiously stoic Loving is based on the true story of Richard Loving Joel Edgerton and Mildred Jeter Loving Ruth Negga, an interracial couple who were convicted in  of violating Virginias anti-miscegenation statute and were threatened with -year prison sentences if they didnt leave the state.
The Lovings stayed together, raised a family and fought the decision on a variety of fronts, with their case finally making its way to the U.S. Supreme Court in . The landmark Loving v. Virginia civil rights decision struck down ignorant, racist decrees prohibiting interracial marriage.
Its a great love story and a fascinating legal battle more than worthy of the big-screen, awards-season treatment, and Edgerton and Negga each deliver fine, quietly powerful performances.
But as good as these actors are, Loving is a rather tepid love story. One could argue the dynamic between Richard and Mildred, in which love often is expressed with a simple touch of the hand or a glance across the room, is more subtle and realistic than some overheated movie romance. Still. From the beginning of their romance, theres little indication of WHY theyre so drawn to one another and why theyll risk so much to be together.
Edgerton who was featured in Nichols excellent Midnight Special goes all-in with his portrayal of Richard Loving, from the appropriately yellowed teeth to the spot-on accent to the matter-of-fact manner in which Richard gets up every morning, grabs his construction workers tools and heads off to work.
Once Richards home, all he wants to do is tinker with his cars he and his friends are big-time drag racers, have a beer or two, and hold his best girl Mildred. Hes a man of very, very few words, and his way of letting off steam is walking out of the room and letting the screen door slam behind him.
Neggas Mildred is shy as well, but shes more openly friendly, more outwardly passionate  and when the Lovings find themselves persecuted by the law, its Mildred who takes the lead in meetings and phone calls with the lawyers. There are moments of pure grace in Neggas performance.
Nichols seems so intent on not overdramatizing the Lovings story and sticking to historical fact, Loving seems stuck in neutral for long stretches. Nearly every time a character leaves a room, said individual pauses for a meaningful glance. Courtroom sequences, including the final showdown in front of the Supreme Court in which the Lovings were not present, are mostly muted and without theatrics.
Again: probably accurate, but dramatically dry.
When Loving DOES amp up the conflict, it feels a bit forced. The lawmen  most notably Marton Csokas as the chillingly, casually hateful Sheriff Brooks  who lock up Richard and Mildred are stereotypical good ol boy, mid-th century racists  and they lay it on thick with the rough treatment and the Biblical rationalizations for their vile beliefs. And then they simply disappear from the movie when the case takes a different direction.
Another loose thread: somebody called the cops on Richard and Mildred in the first place. Mildreds family talks about how someone had to tip off the police and let them know about this couple who were living far off the grid in the Virginia woods. We never find out who had it in for them. Thats fine, this isnt a courtroom mystery  but why have characters raise the issue in the first place?
The cinematography, the set design, the costumes, the overall feel of Loving: all first-rate. Negga and Edgerton are undeniably good. I was impressed. I just wish Id been more deeply moved.
