What with all the shootin and the stabbin and the bow-and-arrowin and the killin in The Magnificent Seven, perhaps the most remarkable thing about the film:
Its rated PG- for extended and intense sequences of Western violence, and for historical smoking, some language and suggestive material.
Ah, Western violence and historical smoking. Got it. Does your film get a different rating if it contains modern violence and present-day smoking?
Of course, if Antoine Fuquas bullet-riddled remake of John Sturges great  Western which of course was a reimagined take on Kurosawas Seven Samurai had included naked breasts andor multiple f-bombs, it would have been slapped with a R rating.
But hundreds of violent deaths without any nudity or big-time swearing? Then youre good to go with that PG-.
Stay warped, MPAA.
Not that Im offended by the ear-splitting, body-spilling, town-destroying gunplay in The Magnificent Seven. This aint pattycakes  nor is it particularly insightful or memorable as anything more escapist entertainment. With just a touch of commentary on modern-day politics. Heres looking at you, Mr. Trump.
Over all, this is a rousing, albeit sometimes cheesy, action-packed Western bolstered by Denzel Washingtons baddest-of-the-baddasses lead performance, mostly fine supporting work, and yep, some of the most impressively choreographed extended shootout sequences in recent memory.
Saddle up and shoot 'em up. Thats your movie right there.
The Magnificent Seven is set in the mining town of Rose Creek in . The normally reliable Peter Sarsgaard wildly overplays his role as the perpetually sweating, squinting, sociopathic robber baron Bartholomew Bogue. This guys so evil he waits until half the town is meeting in the church, just so he and his henchmen can saunter in and he can offer  take-it-or-leave it for every parcel of land, slap around the preacher and gun down a few innocent folks.
Hiss! Boo!
Washington plays it cool and calm as Sam Chisolm, who dresses in black from his hat to his boots, is faster on the draw than anyone in the West, and makes it a point to announce to anyone who will listen hes not a bounty hunter  hes a duly appointed officer of the court in multiple states, tasked with bringing in murderers and thieves, for a price of course.
When Haley Bennetts obligatory Plucky Grieving Widow throws a sack of money at Chisolm and asks him to save the town of Rose Creek, Chisolm could just take the money and run  but hes a man with a sense of justice, so he recruits a half-dozen rogues, including:
Chris Pratts wisecracking, hard-drinking Irish gunman Josh Faraday' Ethan Hawkes ridiculously named sharpshooter Goodnight Robicheaux and his loyal sidekick, the almost as ridiculously named Billy Rocks South Korean star Byung-hun Lee: Manuel Garcia-Rulfos devil-may-care Vasquez' Martin Sensmeiers Native American warrior Red Harvest, and Vincent DOnofrios overgrown mountain man, Jack Horne.
Some of the Seven-sters get more screen time and character development than others. We dont learn all that much about Vasquez or Billy Rocks or Red Harvest. Its fun to see Washington and Hawke in a Fuqua-directed film some  years after Training Day. Hawkes Robicheaux is a relatively complex character in a film that decidedly isnt about character development.
Pratts performance as the cocky Faraday is underwhelming. A lot of bluster and smirking with few payoffs  and a climactic scene that felt predictable and ridiculous, even for an over-the-top Western.
But I did marvel as Fuquas ability to stage a number of action sequences, each one bigger, bolder, louder and more impressive than the one before. Theres a lot of good old-fashioned stunt work and practical effects on display here, most of it seriously impressive. On occasion, its almost comically obvious were watching stunt performers and not Washington et al. performing amazing horseback riding feats.
Also, stick around for the closing credits. Man did I love the closing credits.
