Among the many cringe-inducing moments in Mahogany is the moment when a world-famous fashion photographer gives Diana Rosss character her new name.
I give all my creations the names of inanimate objects, says the photog. Theres only one word that describes rich, dark, beautiful and rare. Im going to call you Mahogany.
onethird
Before the free Pritzker Pavilion screening at : p.m. Tuesday, scouts will be checking out the audience for people in Mahogany-inspired looks to take part in an onstage fashion show.
onethird
Imagine what the Twitterverse would do with THAT if Mahogany had a  release date.
In point of fact October marks the th anniversary of the release of Berry Gordys lurid fashion-world soap opera, which attempts to combine social commentary with romance and stylish European chic, and pretty much fails on all counts.
Mahogany will be screened Tuesday on a -foot-by-.-foot screen at the Jay Pritzker Pavilion at Millennium Park as part of a summer series that has included Apollo , Almost Famous and Dirty Dancing. While it might be fun to see Diana Ross in all her glamorous beauty, Billy Dee Williams as an aldermanic hopeful and a downtown Chicago much grittier and less spectacular than the skyline that will be looming all around that big screen, the film is likely to inspire groans at the mid-s attitudes concerning race, gender and the role of a woman even when shes the title character in a Hollywood blockbuster of the time.
Diana Ross plays Tracy Chambers, a secretary from the South Side who dreams of becoming a fashion designer, even though her boss Nina Foch, about as subtle as the Wicked Witch doesnt believe someone such as Tracy should ever aspire to anything more than taking dictation and getting coffee for the professionals.
Billy Dee Williams is Brian Walker, an ambitious and charismatic community activist who favors turtlenecks and works the neighborhoods with a bullhorn, promising a better future. Roger Eberts review of Mahogany noted how much Williams resembled Jesse Jackson.
Brians got a thing for Tracy, but she puts romance aside when shes discovered by one Sean McAvoy Anthony Perkins, a world-renowned fashion photographer who puts Tracy in front of the camera and woos her to come to Rome with the promise of becoming a famous fashion model AND getting the chance to show off her own designs one day.
When Tracys skeptical mother asks Sean, Whats wrong with Chicago? Sean replies, Nothing. Nothing a trip to Europe wont cure.  In Rome, they dont send their pretty things out to get coffee.
Anthony Perkins plays Sean McAvoy, a photographer who lures Tracy Diana Ross to Europe, with all the insanity of Norman Bates from Psycho.  PARAMOUNT HOME MEDIA DISTRIBUTION
A word about Tony Perkins and his portrayal of Sean, a former war photographer with a maniacal thousand-yard stare, a frighteningly comprehensive collection of guns and a penchant for humiliating women. This guy is so clearly insane, it feels as if Norman Bates from Psycho escaped from captivity, changed his name, took up photography and wound up in Rome in the s. What is he doing in this movie!
Once Mahogany leaves Chicago for Rome to focus mostly on Tracys modeling career and her daring fashion designs, were thrust into a bizarre, garishly photographed, trippy movie, with Sean and an aging, creepy, wealthy benefactor Jean-Pierre Aumont warring over Tracy as if shes a prized possession and not an actual human being.
Billy Dee Williams plays a community activist in Chicago who cant stand Tracys transformation.  PARAMOUNT HOME MEDIA DISTRIBUTION
Meanwhile, the supposedly progressive Brian, whos all about improving conditions for the working man and the poor blacks in the projects, cant stomach the idea of a woman having her own career. Even when Brian visits Rome and sees the success shes having as Mahogany, the whole scene sickens him, and he tells her to give him a call if shes ever ready to become the nice girl from neighborhood he once knew.
Ross looks great, and from time to time the soundtrack plays Do You Know Where Youre Going To, which would go on to become a No.  hit for Ross and will be stuck in your head for hours after seeing the movie. She throws herself into the performance, going over the top because the material is asking for just that kind of unsubtle acting. Its not a great work, but she captures the screen.
SPOILER ALERT! Mahogany ends on a curiously mixed note that seems to say Tracys future will be all about standing by her man and helping him achieve all his dreams. Perhaps one day shell take out her old sketches and remember those crazy times in Rome with all those buffoonish white men who wanted to get her drunk and sleep with her.
Do you know where youre going to? For Tracy, apparently its the campaign trail, the kitchen and the bedroom.




















                        









