In  Larry Clark stirred up the national conversation with Kids, a frank and disturbing look at sexually irresponsible, drug-abusing, sometimes violent teenagers in New York City. It wasnt a great film but it was a memorable and provocative piece of work.
Twenty years later, Clark is still fascinated to an unsettling degree with promiscuous young people, this time in the small border town of Marfa, Texas.
What he neglected to do was provide any kind of a story to go along with all the nudity and violence and meandering, mostly dull dialogue.
Serena and so many other delayed releases, thats almost never a good thing.
This is a well-photographed film with some stark and stunning visuals of a fascinating town. Located in West Texas, Marfa has a population of just , according to the  census, but its become something of a tourist destination and a beacon for young art students after the late minimalist Donald Judd established two foundations to support the creative arts.
" data-medium-file"" data-large-file"" class"wp-image- size-full" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.commarfagirl.jpg?w'h" alt"Drake Burnette stars as the title character in quot'Marfa Girl.quot'  " width"" height"" 
Drake Burnette stars as the title character in 'Marfa Girl.'  COURTESY OF BREAKING GLASS PICTURES
Drake Burnette plays one such artist, who is never given a name in the film and is referred to as Marfa Girl in the credits. Shes a lithe, pretentious and sexually voracious girl who beds nearly every man she encounters and spends the rest of her time lecturing Border Patrol agents on race relations or giving sexual advice to the one male in her life she ISNT sleeping with: -year-old Adam Adam Mediano.
Although Marfa Girl tells Adam shell sleep with him in a year, once hes mastered a certain sexual technique. So hes got that to look forward to.
Adam has a sweet and loyal albeit excruciatingly dull girlfriend named Inez Mercedes Maxwell, and he tells Marfa Girl hed never recover if he found out Inez was cheating on him  but that doesnt stop Adam from sleeping with a young mother Indigo Rael whose husband is in prison.
The numerous sex scenes are so uninteresting and devoid of creativity or plot advancement, even the actors participating in said encounters seem bored. Detours into the lives of a pregnant teacher who literally spanks Adam with a paddle for falling asleep in class and some women standing around talking about the deaths of their dogs are weird for the sake of weirdness. It doesnt help that the cast is filled with nonprofessional actors, who come across as  not professional.
Then theres the story of the vile, racist, psychopathic border patrol agent Tom Jeremy St. James, which plays like an entirely different movie. From the moment when Tom makes a wildly inappropriate comment to a teenage waitress to the chilling encounters he has with Adam and Adams mother late in the film, its clear this guy should be locked up before something violent and terrible happens. As disturbing as this material is, at least theres a story of sorts, and a strong performance from St. James.
In fact its the only legitimate performance in the film. Drake Burnette does vacuous work as the title character. Adam Mediano is OK at best as the -year-old object of so much female attention. Of the various supporting characters whowander in and out of Clarks lens, none stands out. Theyre not the worst actors ever' theyre just not doing a whole lot with characters who dont have a whole lot to offer.
