Whats the story with that intense and cool teacher with all those tattoos and all that enthusiasm for his work?
What about the dad who putters about the house in his robe, cooking up exotic and often disgusting delicacies?
Or the drop-dead gorgeous, popular girl in school whos fiercely loyal to her best friend  is there more to her story?
Thing is, the aforementioned are but fringe players in Me and Earl and the Dying Girl, and yet I felt as if the film could start following around any of them and about a half-dozen other supporting characters, Slackers style, and theyd be worthy of the center stage.
Here is a film with no wasted characters, no wasted scenes. Yes, its fanciful and arch and indie-creative, but every inch of it feels real.
With a smart, funny and moving screenplay by Jesse Andrews adapting his own book, beautiful directing by Alfonso Gomez-Rejon, wonderfully creative cinematography by Chung-hoon Chug, gorgeous music from Brian Eno and Nico Muhly and three winning performances from the leads, Me and Earl and the Dying Girl is one of those movies Im going to badger you to see because even though you might think you don't want to see a movie called Me and Earl and the Dying Girl, Id really like you to see Me and Earl and the Dying Girl.
So go see it. Please.
Thomas Mann, giving the kind of performance that would have gained John Hughes attention a generation ago, plays Greg Gaines, who has mastered the art of navigating all the cliques and clichs of high school life without getting his psychic uniform dirty. Greg compares the carved-out corners of the high school cafeteria to the Gaza Strip, and he manages to avoid becoming a member of any group AND avoid their ridicule or wrath by being just friendly enough and moving quickly past without engaging on any kind of meaningful level. His goal is to make it through all four years as the invisible kid.
Gregs best and only friend is Earl RJ Cyler, terrific  but Gregs protective emotional barricade is so thick he insists theyre not friends, theyre co-workers because they collaborate on short spoofs of iconic films, e.g., A Sockwork Orange, Senior Citizen Kane, My Dinner With Andre the Giant and : Cowboy. The movies within the movie are insane and goofy and hilarious.
Every day, Greg and Earl meet for lunch in the office of their history teacher an excellent Jon Bernthal, virtually unrecognizable from his Walking Dead days, watching Werner Herzog on YouTube in favor of actually connecting with the high school experience.
Greg would be content to play out his high school days in that fashion, but his loving albeit ever-intrusive mother Connie Britton throws a wrench in his plans by insisting Greg visit a classmate he barely knows: Rachel Olivia Cooke, who has been diagnosed with leukemia.
Gregs first encounter with Rachel is a thing of offbeat beauty. She tells him he doesnt have to visit her out of pity' he says hes not visiting her out of pity, hes visiting her because his mother is making him do it.
From that point forward, with Greg providing a wry but sincere narrative, Greg and Rachel strike up a close friendship that could be romance but maybe it wont be a romance, and she might die but she could get better, and meanwhile, Greg and Earl get coerced into making a movie for Rachel, and that leads to some serious tensions all around.
Nick Offerman provides deadpan comic relief as Gregs dad, he of the bathrobe and the disgusting food offerings. Molly Shannon is great as Rachels mother, who skirts the line when it comes to Greg and Earl  offering them alcohol and baring her soul to them. Katherine C. Hughes does nice work as Madison, the beautiful girl who renders Greg an idiot whenever they cross paths. Gomez-Rejon illustrates Gregs theories about romance with nifty little stop-motion animation sequences.
Rachels illness isnt some cutesy, dark, meet-cute for these characters. Just because Greg loves her as a friend and maybe more doesnt mean everythings going to be all right. She loses her hair and she loses her energy and eventually loses her interest in getting better  and Greg doesnt deal with all of that like a hero. He handles it like a kid his age would most likely deal with it.
Me and Earl and the Dying Girl has those handkerchief moments, but the laughs far outnumber the hard and sad punches. This is a movie thats grounded in reality, has just enough whimsy and soars to the stars. Its one of the best films of .
