When the lights dim and the movie begins, we try to shed our perceptions of the actors in other roles theyve done  but sometimes the casting in a movie is just too meta to ignore.
In Me Before You, Daenerys Targaryen from Game of Thrones is the daughter of Mr. Bates from Downton Abbey, and she falls in love with Finnick Odair from The Hunger Games, whose father is  Tywin Lannister from Game of Thrones.
When Emilia Clarkes character meets Charles Dances character, I couldnt help wishing he would say, The mother of dragons, in MY house!?
But that would be a Funny or Die clip and not a movie, and we are here to talk about the movie, and alas, Me Before You is nowhere near as entertaining as the television programs and the film referenced above.
Based on a beloved and bestselling novel and doing everything to make you cry short of flooding theaters with the overwhelming scent of onions, Me Before You is a beautifully filmed and well-intentioned weeper marred by an unfortunate performance from one of the leads, and a plot development that leaves us more angry and frustrated than moved in the final act.
Emilia Clarke from Game of Thrones floors the gas pedal on Self-Consciously Adorable as Louisa aka Lou, a painfully simple working-class girl in her mid-s who dresses like a -year-old pretending to be a grown-up, furrows her considerable eyebrows so frequently and so aggressively were afraid they might just leave her face, and maintains the cheerful demeanor of a princess-to-be in a Disney cartoon.
Sam Claflins Will had it all  the looks, the charm, the great job, the moneyed background he grew up in an actual castle, the beautiful girlfriend  until the rainy morning when he was yapping on his cell phone and he walked right into the path of a motorcycle, and now hes a quadriplegic, living on the grounds of his parents estate, alienating one caregiver after another, blasting metal music in his room and hating every second of his existence.
Enter Lou as Wills latest caregiver, and here come the plot references to My Fair Lady, Educating Rita, The Bucket List, Pretty Woman Lou even wears a red dress to a musical performance, ala Julia Roberts and even Dying Young in which Ms. Roberts played a caregiver to a wealthy patient played by Campbell Scott.
Will is rude to the point of cruelty. Lou keeps coming at him with flowers and enthusiasm and suggestions for fun activities they can do. Wills loving parents Charles Dance and Janet McTeer pace about their enormous home in their tasteful rich peoples clothes, arguing about what to do about Wills state of mind. The soundtrack is peppered with songs containing lyrics almost literally describing what just transpired, as we transition to the next scene.
At one point Lou notices scars on Wills wrists, indicating a suicide attempt. Am I wrong to wonder how a quadriplegic cut his own wrists? Did someone help him?
Bigger problems with Me Before You include Lous boorish wet blanket of a boyfriend, a self-absorbed clown who makes it REALLY easy for Lou to turn her eyes to Will.
Also, scenes in which the audience at a concert and the guests at a wedding reception are horrified by the mere presence of a man in a wheelchair seem way, way over the top. Yes, differently abled individuals must deal with ignorant reactions from some people. But in Me Before You, the elite and the privileged stare at Will as if they have never seen anyone in a wheelchair and they cant believe he has the nerve to join them in society.
And then theres Will himself. Granted, its beyond our comprehension to fully understand what it must be like to be in the best of health one day and then unable to walk or move ones arms the next. Its a tragedy. Yet Will is in a situation that would be the envy of . percent of quadriplegic. The decisions he makes are more infuriating than debate-provoking, more selfish than the selflessness with which theyre portrayed in the film.
As tearjerkers go, this one features a guy whos something of a jerk.
