When first we see Bill Paxton onscreen in Mean Dreams, yes, we are taken out of the movie for a moment as we lament the recent passing of one of the most valuable and well-liked character actors of the last  years.
Quickly, though, we are back inside the movie, and its a tribute to Paxtons skill set that for brief while we hate Bill Paxton. We really, really hate him.
Paxton gives a chilling performance as a monstrously abusive father in director Nathan Morlandos stark and bleak Mean Dreams, a tribute of sorts to Terrence Malicks  classic Badlands, both in style and story. If youre going to deliver a somewhat derivative homage, why not tip your camera to one of the all-time best?
Set in rural America but shot in northern Ontario, Canada, Mean Dreams is filled with brilliant visuals, often coated in tones of deep reds and October-ish yellows and browns. The nighttime shots from cinematographer Steve Cosens have a sharper, more ominous look.
Sophie Nelisse The Book Thief plays Casey, whos new in town, and Josh Wiggins is Jonas, a local farmboy. Theyre both  years old and they Meet Cute over Caseys wandering dog, and they fall for each almost instantly  but once Caseys widowed cop father Wayne gets wind of the budding relationship, he says it aint happening.
Wayne threatens Jonas, threatens Jonas troubled family and tells the kid to get off his property and never come back. Later, when Jonas tells Casey hes not afraid of her dad, Casey quickly replies: You should be.
Theres something innately terrifying about Wayne, whether hes grinning his crooked grin and quietly threatening a teenage kid, or commanding his daughter to come here. The way in which he says it, and the look of pure dread on her face in response, tells us Wayne has a very twisted and sick hold on his daughter.
The forbidden romance plot line, and the back stories about Caseys and Jonas families are rich enough dramatic fodder  but Mean Dreams kicks into another gear after a series of events leads to Casey and Jonas on the run, with life-changing cash in their possession and Caseys psychopathic father hot on their trail.
Versatile character actor Colm Feore , House of Cards, Thor, The Amazing Spider-Man  matches Paxtons presence scene by scene as Waynes equally corrupt, equally morally bankrupt partner in crime.
Young actors Sophie Nelisse and Josh Wiggins have strong chemistry as the teenage lovers on the run. They look and act and sounds like real-life teenagers. They were both about the same ages as the characters when the movie was filmed.
While the plot often travels familiar paths and even the impressive camerawork is evocative of other films, Mean Dreams has a few story tricks up its sleeve  and it has Bill Paxton, playing one of the most odious characters he ever played, and doing it with absolute mastery.
nbsp'
