The children in Men, Women amp' Children are teenagers  high school students who are , ,  years old which means they grew up with texting and online chatting and role-playing video games. They spend half their waking hours with their heads bowed to their smart phones or their eyes locked on a laptop screen.
When their history teacher gives them an assignment to write about the events of , these kids have no personal memories of where they were on that day. They have to interview their parents about it.
Nearly a half-century after Strother Martin famously said What weve got here, is failure to communicate in Cool Hand Luke, we can reach others in ways nearly unimaginable back then, but we still struggle to truly and effectively communicate with one another.
This is the abiding theme of Jason Reitmans perceptive, moving slice of modern life  a time capsule of a film that understands how much technology dominates the lives of teenagers, as well as the parents trying their best to keep up with the times. At times Reitman adapting Chad Kultgens  novel can be a bit preachy and scolding about the pitfalls of surrendering ones RL real life to ones online existence, but just about any parent or any teenager seeing this film will empathize with any number of the interconnecting plot lines.
We start with Emma Thompsons borderline condescending voice-over explaining the path and mission of Voyager , which was launched in  and nearly  years later became the first spacecraft to cross the heliopause and enter interstellar space. Earth is just a tiny blue dot in the grand scheme of things, were told more than once, and yet everyone well ever know, everyone whos ever lived, has done so on this speck of a planet.
But in a small town in Texas, the entire universe seems to consist of about a half-dozen high school students and their parents. As usual, Reitman has assembled an outstanding cast, including:

A dialed-down and quite effective Adam Sandler and Rosemarie DeWitt as a couple whose marriage is in a deep lull. She joins the Ashley Madison website in search of an affair. He goes for the online escort option.

Dean Norris as a father who was abandoned by his wife a year ago shes now boasting about her engagement on Facebook and is struggling to connect with his brooding teenage son.

Jennifer Garner as an overprotective mother who literally tracks her daughters every movement and reads all of her texts, emails and Facebook posts.

Judy Greer as a failed actress turned stage mom who creates a website for her cheerleader daughter that includes a private membership option for the more provocative photos.
Ansel Elgort is Tim, a star running back who quits the football team and strikes up a friendship that turns to romance with Kaitlyn Devers Brandy, who has created a secret Tumblr account to dodge her mothers constant electronic monitoring. Theyre bright, sensitive, tightly wound kids who find peace with each other, whether theyre texting late at night or sneaking off for midnight kisses, just like teenagers used to do back in the day.
Meanwhile, Olivia Crocicchias Hannah is putting together a video audition for one of those You Can Be Americas Next Big Star! shows' Elena Kampouris Allison is turning to pro-anorexic websites when shes tempted by food, and any time theres a fight or an incident of any kind at school, half the students take out their phones to record the moment.
At times Men, Women amp' Children veers close to becoming a checklist of tech-related social issues though, thankfully, theres no scene of someone texting and driving and then  watch out for that giant truck!, but the writing is strong and the performances are universally excellent.
Garner infuses a thoroughly unlikable character with just enough vulnerability and self-doubt to make her believable. Norris, who looks like he could play Bruce Willis brother, is a standout as a man who is lost but doesnt have time to feel sorry for himself because his son is even more troubled. Sandler never once gives in to the temptation to stray outside of character. Hes low-key and hes good. Greer has a scene where shes on the phone in a supermarket, getting some bad news and trying to talk her way out of the bad news, thats heartbreaking.
Theres a scene early in the film where three girls are talking  and two of them are texting each other about the third. Its sharp and funny, and more than a little sad, all at once. This is how we live now.
After the screening of Men, Women amp' Children, we all filed out of the theater, and nearly every single one of us did the same thing.
We pressed the power button on our smart phones.
