Im wondering if the mutant kids at Miss Peregrines Home for Peculiar Children ever play basketball against their rivals across the pond, Xaviers School for Gifted Youngsters.
Id watch that.
Id certainly rather watch that than Tim Burtons adaptation of the popular childrens book about a school for freakishly gifted children. This is a messy, confusing, uninvolving mishmash of old-school practical effects and CGI battles that feels  off nearly every misstep of the way.
Its like watching a master musician play a piano he somehow doesnt realize is out of tune.
Burton of course is the mad genius behind Batman, Edward Scissorhands, Beetlejuice and Big Fish, among many other singular worksbut alas, Miss Peregrine ranks down there with Dark Shadows as a rare Burton bust.
The young actor Asa Butterfield Hugo, Enders Game is capable of fine work, but hes bland and blank here as Jake, a Florida youth who feels like an outcast everywhere but at the home of his grandfather Abe Terence Stamp, who fills Jakes imagination with stories of Abes childhood in a strange and mysterious childrens home off the coast of Wales.
As Abe tells it, his parents fled Poland just before the Nazi occupation and left young Abe in the care of Miss Peregrine Eva Green, who watched over a small band of oddly gifted children like a hawk.
Well, actually like a falcon. You see, Miss Peregrine had the ability to turn herself into a falcon at will.
After Abe is the victim of a vicious attack by a mysterious and evil force, Jake is convinced he must journey to Wales and find the magical home of Abes youth.
Weirdly enough, Jakes parents go for it this plan. Mom Kim Dickens in a role that makes no sense stays at home so she can get some work done, while Jakes dimwit, barely there Dad Chris ODowd jumps at the chance to take a trip  not because he wants to bond with his troubled son, but because he believes itll be a great opportunity to research the bird-watching book hes apparently beenworking on forever.
Off we go.
Jake indeed locates the house  but the Germans bombed the school in , and its nothing but rubble and ruins.
Until its not.
Jake finds a portal to the past and winds up in , on the last day before the bomb struck the home. Turns out Miss Peregrine has two gifts: the aforementioned turn-into-a-bird deal, and the ability to manipulate time so that she and her beloved children can remain safely ensconced in a one-day loop, for all eternity.
Among the students and their peculiar peculiarities:
 Emma Bloom Ella Purnell, who is literally lighter than air and will float away if she doesnt strap on heavy footwear.
 Enoch OConnor Finlay MacMillan, who can resurrect the dead and manipulate them like puppets. Nice to meet you, Enoch!
 Hugh Apiston Milo Parker, who has a live beehive inside of him and has to keep his mouth closed, lest he start vomiting bees your way.
 Claire Densmore Raffiella Chapman, who has a giant, shark-like mouth in the back of her head.
Its creepy upon creepy upon creepy  but none of the characters is given much depth. They seem like nice enough youngsters, but the screenplay for Miss Peregrine is so busy with time-traveling and mid-movie introductions of new characters, we don't really get to know or care about most of these peculiar children.
Samuel L. Jackson is the king of shouting his lines in a way that is usually entertaining on a massive scale  but his over-the-top performance as the villainous Barron here is just strident and actually kind of dull. Eva Greens Miss Peregrine is supposed to be a loving, fiercely protective mother figure, but Green plays her as if shes one more Peculiar Child away from a nervous breakdown. Maybe its the stress of living the same day over and over and OVER. Chris ODowd is saddled with playing a terrible dad who is also a very boring dad.
Deep into the story, characters are still pausing to explain to one another and thus the audience the history of the malevolent Hollowgasts, AND invisible monsters who hunt down Peculiars and eat their eyeballs, AND how the whole time-travel thing works, AND oh by the way Barron has the ability to shape-shift so he can resemble humans, AND now here comes an army of skeletons to do battle with Hollowgasts, AND Jake has to decide if hes going to stay back in  with the Peculiars which means hed be occupying the same timeline as his grandfather, who would be only a few years older, or go back to Florida.
And while the practical effects and the sets and the CGI often provide interesting visuals, all the stuff in the paragraph we just slogged through together added up to one massive movie-going headache.
