At first Bodine Bolings work as a semi-hipster, do-gooder Brooklynite named Kim in Movement and Location comes across as so disjointed and odd it seems almost amateurish  but the more we know about Kims backstory, the more impressive the performance.
Non-spoiler of a spoiler alert: On the surface, Kim is a -year-old woman living in present-day New York City, but shes actually a new arrival from about  years into the future, which explains why shes not exactly familiar with the mannerisms, speech patterns and social mores of our time.
Kim might as well be an alien from another planet. In fact, Bolings work reminded me a little of Jeff Bridges memorable portrayal of a humanoid alien in Starman. At times this film also reminded me of John Sayles The Brother from Another Planet. No wonder why Kims answers to questions about her personal life and her family history, as well as her reactions to some surprising developments in her life, sometime feel a little flat, as if shes not quite sure what to do. She isnt.
We know little about the world from which Kim has escaped, other than there have been drastic changes over the last  years and things are less than idyllic  and if you manage to hitch a ride to the past, its a one-way ticket, because the technology of that future doesnt allow for a return.
Once Kim lands in the Brooklyn of , some four centuries before her birth, shes here for life.
Catherine Missal
Kim works for an outreach program for homeless adults, helping them to get off the park benches and taking them to safe places where they can find food, shelter and hopefully a new path. But when she encounters a -year-old street kid named Rachel Catherine Missal with whom she shares a common bond, her new life on Earth is turned upside down.
How far will Kim go to protect her secret? Kim has traveled in time, but she has no superpowers and no means of proving her true origins. She knows if shes arrested or subjected in any way to detailed scrutiny, her story wont hold up and shell be locked up. Why is she REALLY here? And what will happen when the truth hits the fan?
Kim launches into a romance with a good-hearted cop Brendan Griffin as a means of shielding the truth, but then she develops feelings for the guy, and shes conflicted about what to do next. In the meantime, she has to fend off the increasingly suspicious probes of her co-worker Haile Owusu and her roommate Ana Margaret Hollyman, who finally realize her story doesnt add up.
And then things get REALLY complicated.
Written by lead actress Bodine Boling and directed with a steady hand by her husband Alexis, Movement and Location has some clear-cut parallels to the stories of immigrants who are in the States illegally and are trying to live quiet, productive lives without anyone asking too many questions. But it also works as a Rod Serling-esque sci-fi adventure of the mind, devoid of special effects but convincing us of its dimension-breaking elements through the use of dialogue, performance and music.
