Sam Rockwell hasnt become the next-generation Jack Nicholson big-ticket movie star some pegged him to be, but the guy IS a singular presence onscreen, and he absolutely kills it in Mr. Right.
In more ways than one.
In the kind of role that could go Razzie-bad in the wrong hands, Rockwell hits it out of the park as Francis, a charming, dorky, self-effacing but ridiculously efficient assassin with a newly formed conscience.
Instead of killing his assigned targets, Francis has taken to eliminating the clients who ordered the hit in the first place. And he dons a red clown nose before taking out his enemies, just so director Paco Cabezas and screenwriter Max Landis can make it clear this film exists in a Jonathan DemmeJohn WooQuentin Tarantino universe, and we cant take it literally.
Anna Kendrick has the Anna Kendrick role as the smart, fast-talking, neurotic, insecure Martha, who is rebounding from a breakup from her horrible boyfriend when she meets-cute with Francis in a gas station convenience store. Francis asks Martha on a date, and even though Marthas instincts tell her he might be crazy, why not? Her friends are always telling her she needs to take chances.
It takes a long time for Martha to realize when Francis says things like, Sorry, I had to go out to the parking lot to kill a guy, hes not joking. Once Martha DOES get it, shes torn between running for her life and embracing this crazy romance. In other words, she might be as nuts as Francis.
The chemistry between Rockwell and Kendrick drives the movie. Theyre fast and wonderful together. But Mr. Right has an abundance of strong supporting performances as well.
Tim Roth is hilariously fantastic as a hitman masquerading as an FBI agent. Anson Mount delivers strong work as the mobster who wants Francis dead. Katie Nehra is a deadpan home run as Marthas roommate.
And the Wu-Tang Clans RZA, whose work in Coffee and Cigarettes is one of my favorite cameos of the last  years, delivers another effortlessly likable performances as a hired gun with shifting allegiances.
Like Rockwells Francis, Mr. Right wears its heart on its sleeve. Its a movie that announces its intentions and its style early on, and if youre not up for a hard-R violent comedy in the tradition of Grosse Pointe Blank, no harm no foul.
But if you ARE in the mood for such a film, here you go.
