While absorbing all the cutting-edge, social media visual fireworks of Nerve, I wondered:
Ten or  years from now, will the offspring of millennials watch this movie via the chip implanted in their heads and laugh at how corny and clunky and outdated it is?
I suppose so. Even though Nerve is filled with colorful eye candy and loaded with internet jargon and references cut and pasted from the latest website headlines, it has the overall vibe of a film trying too hard to be RIGHT NOW RELEVANT and trying way too hard to serve up meaningful commentary about how kids these days are living their lives via their phones and tablets, when they should look up and embrace the people, places and things they can actually reach out and touch.
And for all of its of-the-moment-ness, this film brims with High School Movie Cliches and borrows just a tad here and there from other and much better action thrillers, from Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome to The Hunger Games.
Emma Roberts stars as Venus Vee Delmonico, a smart, sweet, shy high school senior who lives on Staten Island with her clingy but hardworking mother Nancy Juliette Lewis, who works the night shift as a nursephysical therapist because thats a go-to job for hardworking moms in films like this.
Dad is nowhere to be found. Venus had an older brother, a popular, risk-taking type, but he died two years ago. If the cause of death is mentioned I missed it, but Im pretty sure it was Movie Clich Dead Sibling Syndrome.
Vee wants to be a photographer. Judging by her technique as she runs and bounces along with the football team at a pep rally and snaps away, she might not be the next Annie Leibovitz.
Emily Meade plays Venus free-spirited, wild-child best friend Sydney, while Miles Heizer is Venus loyal and nerdy sidekick Tommy, who of course is secretly in love with Venus and wishes she would get over her crush on a dimwit dreamboat type. This kidshould have watched Pretty in Pink and saved himself four years of useless pining.
Mr. Heizer is a youthful-looking  and could pass for an -year-old high school student. Ms. Roberts is . Ms. Meade is . In the tradition of countless high school movies, they play students but they look more like young teachers.
Co-directors Henry Joost and Ariel Schulman, working from a screenplay by Jessica Sharzer based on a  novel, give us accurate and entertaining full-screen images of Vees desktop computer as she navigates the Internet, as well as images from other characters phones and even some creative shots showing the characters from the viewpoint of the cameras in their devices. They have talent.
The wild and crazy Sydney is a top player of Nerve, a wildly popular interactive online game in which one is either a Player or a Watcher.
Watchers pay . per  hours to suggest real-time dares for Players. Where are these high school kids getting the money to fund a gaming habit that would cost . a week, nearly  a month, and a whopping , a year?
Players remain in the game for as long as they successfully complete dares, which can range from the relatively tame kissing a stranger in a diner for five seconds to the genuinely risk-taking climbing a construction crane to the monumentally stupid walking across a ladder extended between two apartments high above the ground, with only the pavement and certain death below.
Spurred on by a public embarrassment, Vee joins 'Nerve' as a Player  and over the course of one REALLY long evening, she catapults to the Top Ten of the national rankings of Players.
Dave Franco plays the mysterious, motorcycle-riding Ian, who becomes Vees partner in the game. The ridiculously named rapperactorperforming artist Machine Gun Kelly aka Colson Baker gives an overwrought performance as the 'Nerve'Player known as Ty, who dresses like a character from the latest Mad Max movie which is noted in the movie and acts like a complete moron.
As luck and the screenplay would have it, this years tournament final is scheduled for this very night in New York City. Kinda sucks if youre playing the game in other parts of the country, right?
Vee, Ian, Sydney, Ty and hundreds other millennials engage in increasingly dangerous stunts to accumulate cash and advance in the tournament, while thousands upon thousands of Watchers experience every moment on their phones and tablets. Of course, parents and the lamestream media seem utterly oblivious to this phenomenon.
Nerve makes some legitimate points about our voyeuristic culture and how so many young people treat every inch of their lives as if theyre celebrities  constantly chronicling their adventures on Snapchat, Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, etc., etc. But these points are obvious, and theyre hammered home. A late-movie scene featuring passionate speeches by Vee and Ian is embarrassing.
Emma Roberts and Dave Franco are just fine, but theres no huge onscreen spark between them. Most of the supporting roles are thinly drawn and forgettable.
As for the film:
Mute. Unfollow. Block. Delete.
Log off.
nbsp'
