Sitting through the smug and convoluted and ridiculous Now You See Me  is like being subjected to a dunk tank again and again  and then being handed a wet towel when its finally over.
The only thing more headache-inducing than the setup of a long con is the supposed payoff at the end. Even the main characters groan in frustration in the last minutes of this film when theyre told theyre not going to get answers to most of their questions. Gee thanks.
The best disappearing act in the sequel to the  moderate box-office hit is performed by Isla Fisher, who was in the original but is nowhere in sight for the sequel. Ta da!
Now You See Me  boasts quite the impressive cast: two Academy Award winners in Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine, three Oscar nominees in Woody Harrelson, Mark Ruffalo and Jesse Eisenberg and a likable supporting cast including Lizzy Caplan, Sanaa Lathan, Dave Franco and Daniel Radcliffe.
Not a one of them escapes the chains of a nearly indecipherable plot, loads of clunky dialogue, an overload of sweeping overhead shots, action sequences cut so rapidly theyre practically in fast motion, an intrusive, obnoxious score and so many special effects theres nothing magical at all about the magic.
Its not sleight-of-hand' its CGI masquerading as the art of misdirection.
Three of the four globally famous Robin Hood magicians  Jesse Eisenbergs Atlas, Woody Harrelsons Merritt and Dave Francos Jack  have been underground for a year, patiently awaiting their next assignment from the mysterious and all-powerful group known only as The Eye. The absence of Isla Fishers Henley is explained in a throwaway line, and then poof! Lizzy Caplans Lula joins the Horsemen.
Mark Ruffalos Dylan is an FBI agent but hes also the leader of the Horsemen and their conduit to The Eye. Meanwhile, Morgan Freemans magic-debunker Thaddeus Bradley is in prison, biding his time and plotting his revenge against Dylan and the Horsemen for he claims framing him for crimes he didnt commit.
The Horsemen emerge from their self-imposed exile in spectacular fashion, hijacking a tech companys product launch to expose its insidious privacy-invading gadgetry  but the tables are turned on the Horsemen, who suddenly find themselves in Macau, and congratulations to the Sands Macao Hotel and Casino for some fantastic and blatant branding placement.
Now its the Horsemen who are being pursued by myriad forces that want them behind bars or dead.
Daniel Radcliffe hams it up as Walter Mabry, an insane business mogul who faked his own death and now wants the Horsemen to steal an all-important computer chip for him. Francos Jack also faked his own death, and thats at least one faked-death subplot too many. If they dont comply, hell have them killed. We get a number of scenes in which the Horsemen are punched, kicked and pushed around by various thugs. Theyre supposedly the greatest escape artists in the world, but they cant seem to escape the clutches of punch-happy henchmen.
Michael Caine returns as Arthur Tressler, the evil insurance magnate who was bilked of millions by the Horsemen and now wants HIS revenge. Judging by Tresslers Trumpian lifestyle, he must have had a few hundred million squirreled away.
And if things werent crowded enough, Harrelson plays his own twin brother, a cackling psychopath who hates his sibling. In a career filled with interesting performances, Harrelsons work as the weirdo twin is not one of those performances. Its a disaster.
In fact NYSM brings out the worst in so many talented actors. Caplan overplays her comedic punch lines, Ruffalo seems almost uninterested in his own work, Caine and Freeman are phoning it in, and Eisenberg and Franco fall short of conveying the supposedly endless onstage charisma of their respective characters.
Director Jon M. Chu whose credits include Jem and the Holograms, a couple of Step Up sequels and G.I. Joe: Retaliation is obsessed with flashy moves and knows how to deliver attractive visuals, but hes not so well versed when it comes to elaborately choreographed set pieces. Just one example: a scene in which the Horseman play keep-away with a playing card containing a priceless totem is clunky and utterly unconvincing.
More than once, characters in Now You See Me  make references to pulling back the curtain, a la The Wizard of Oz. At one point, theres an actual curtain, and the Horsemen swing that curtain open '
And whats behind that curtain is just as much of an incomprehensible jab at the audience as everything else in this film.
'Now You See Me ' one and a half stars
Summit Entertainmentpresents a film directed by Jon M. Chu and written by Ed Solomon. Running time: minutes. Rated PG-for violence and some language. Opens Friday at local theaters.




















                        









