Well, wed have to be talkin about one charming  pig. I mean, hed have to be  times more charming than that Arnold on Green Acres, you know what Im sayin?  Samuel L. Jacksons Jules in Pulp Fiction.
nbsp'
The titular pig in Okja may or may not be  times more charming than Arnold, but theres no disputing shes about  times the SIZE of any pig weve ever seen on screens big or small.
Were talking about a pig the size of a hippo. Were talking about a gigantic pig with a head that more closely resembles a dog's than a pig's.
If that sounds creepy and disturbing, thats because it IS creepy and disturbing. The enormous CGI pig in Okja is a gentle and sympathetic creature, and this film is a fable of sorts  but its not for the little ones. If the little ones watch this movie, they will be haunted in their dreams until they are no longer little.
The greatly gifted and consistently eccentric writer-director Bong Joon Hos Okja is an uneven but never complacent mix of fantastic fairy tale' social satire' heavy-handed commentary on corporate greed and our consumer-crazed culture, and bizarro action film. It also contains fascinating, wildly over-the-top performances from a couple of our best actors.
Free Fire. How is that even possible?
Lisping madly through her shiny braces, Tilda Swintons Lucy is the face of the Mirando Corp., an enormous and of course nefarious agrochemical corporation attempting to retool its image. Lucy has a twin sister, also played by Swinton, who in both performances seems to be having a great time doing some sort of weird, winkingat-the-audience, deliberately overacting thing.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?w'h?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?w'h?w" class"wp-image- size-full" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokja-.jpeg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Tilda Swinton as Lucy Mirando in 'Okja.'  Netflix
Lucy announces the Mirando Corp. has figured out a way to genetically engineer a special breed of pig. Some  piglets will be placed with farmers around the world, and in  years well find out who has grown the fattest, biggest, most amazing pig of all!
No, Im serious. Thats the setup.
Fast-forward a decade. A girl named Mija An Seo Hyun in a charming performance has become best friend and caretaker for the amazing super-pig Okja. Obviously Okja is a pure CGI creation, but its a pretty amazing CGI creation. We like this pig. We feel as if Mija is really interacting with this nice pig. Theirs is an idyllic, sweet friendship, like something out of a benign childrens movie  but things get really dark and really weird when a sweaty, jerky TV host Jake Gyllenhaal, bouncing all over the place as if hes just downed an entire pot of strong coffee shows up to take Okja to New York City, where she will eventually be turned into enough bacon to feed the entire city for a month.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?w'h?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?w'h?w" class"wp-image- size-full" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comokjaunitr.jpeg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Jake Gyllenhaal in 'Okja.'  Netflix
Paul Dano shows up as the oddly sadistic leader of the Animal Liberation Front, a radical group with some questionable methods. You know youre in a strange territory when Paul Dano gives only the third weirdest performance in a film. Gyllenhaals unhinged TV host subjects Okja to some cringe-inducing torture. Meanwhile, the plucky and resourceful Mija is in New York, trying to save her beloved companion from the slaughterhouse.
And then comes the bloody action sequence set to the sounds of Annies Song. Its my second favorite bloody action sequence set to the sounds of Annies Song this year.
