Once upon a time Bruce Willis was one of the biggest movie stars in the world, turning in memorable performances in movies such as Die Hard , Pulp Fiction , The Sixth Sense  and Unbreakable .
Now Willis is , and while he continues to find regular work  film credits over the last three years, he is no longer one of the biggest movie stars in the world  but he rarely if ever phones it in, even when the vehicle hes driving is a low-rent knockoff.
Once Upon a Time in Venice is a cheerfully depraved guilty pleasure in which Willis and a host of other recognizable faces meander about, cracking off a few good lines here and there while the soundtrack blasts mood-setting tunes that all but announce the filmmakers didnt have the budget to pay for REAL pop tunes.
At times its funny as hell. At other times its pretty much a disaster. But it never commits the crime of being tedious.
Willis plays Steve, a hardboiled private eye in Venice Beach who has a penchant for getting himself into trouble.
Example. At one point a couple of tough guys burst into Steves apartment and find him in bed with their sister, which leads to Steve jumping naked through the window and into a swimming pool, and then commandeering a skateboard while still naked to make his getaway.
Im fairly certain a stunt double was used in some of the naked getaway scenes. I wasnt interested in studying the screen all that closely to make sure.
Thomas Middleditch Silicon Valley plays Steves wannabe partner, who narrates the story.
Adam Goldberg plays Lou the Jew nothing clever about that moniker, a landlord who wants to know whos been spray-painting obscene messages on his apartment building.
Kal Penn and David Arquette, among others, make brief cameos that amount to nothing.
Jason Momoa plays a ruthless drug dealer with a bit of a dopey, semi-soft side.
John Goodman is a great fun as a surf shop owner.
Famke Janssen is Steves sister, Emily Robinson is Steves niece, and one or more dogs play their beloved Jack Russell terrier, who at one point is kidnapped, prompting Steve to risk everything to retrieve the dog.
Willis Steve is the common thread throughout  calmly negotiating for the return of his nieces dog, impersonating a pizza delivery guy so he can infiltrate an enemys lair, lecturing a group of slack-jawed kids about the dangers of drugs and hookers, narrowly avoiding grievous bodily harm at every turn.
Of course Willis employs his trademark smirk and his familiar sarcastic line readings. Of course weve seen him play variations on this downtrodden, wisecracking cynic in better movies.
But B-movie Willis is still kind of a hoot.
