The most interesting characters in Paper Towns are sitting in the back of the car or riding shotgun.
Thats not a metaphor. Well, it is, but theyre also literally in the back of the car or riding shotgun, while the main guy is behind the wheel.
Our story is told from the point of view of Nat Wolffs Quentin, who will remind you of virtually every Nice-Guy-High-School-Senior-Whos-Been-Nursing-a-Years-Long Crush-on-the-Most-Amazing-Girl-in-School character. Ever.
Wolffs a capable actor and Quentins a likable if somewhat bland fellow. The girl hes mad about, Margo Cara Delevingne, is a narcissistic free spirit whose antics have become the stuff of legend in the Orlando suburb where she grew up, but if Margo didnt look like Cara Delevingne, Im thinking Margo would have worn out her welcome with most kids long ago. Shes kind of a brat.
a smart and lovely film that grossed some  million internationally.
I really liked Radar Justice Smith, a whip-smart and quietly charismatic African-American kid whos in love with his girlfriend Angela Jaz Sinclair, but is embarrassed to take her to his house, because his parents are obsessed with accumulating the worlds largest collection of Black Santas. Black Santa dolls, Black Santa portraits, Black Santa toilet seats. Black Santas everywhere. Its worse in person than it sounds, says Radar.
Justice Smith has the makings of a star. Every one of his line readings was interesting and just a little different.
I also liked Austin Abrams as Ben, who skirts the line between hilarious and obnoxious sometimes crossing over. Oh, and Halston Sage, who plays a blonde knockout named Lacey who shatters the stereotypes about such a character once we get to know her  another terrific performance and another character more compelling than aw-shucks Quentin and the self-obsessed Margo.
The nice thing about Paper Towns is its as much about the friendship between Quentin, Radar and Ben as it is about Quentins love for Margo, and his quest to find her after she disappears yet again.
Quentin has been in love with Margo since she and her family moved in across the street when they were kids. For a few years they were best friends  but then Margo got super-hot and super-popular, and Quentin remained nerdy and shy, and they go years without spending quality time together.
Until late one night deep into senior year, when Margo shows up at Quentins bedroom window and recruits him to join her on what she promises will be the best night of his life.
Not that its about Quentin. Its about Margo. Its always about Margo.
Quentin tags along with Margo as she exacts revenge on friends who betrayed her. Once the hijinks are completed, they wind up in an office high above their hometown, which Margo says is nothing but a paper town. Paper towns are fictitious cities cartographers place on maps in order to thwart copycats.
Its a magical night. Margo wonders if life would have been different  better  if she had never stopped hanging around with Quentin.
So when Margo goes missing, Quentin takes it upon himself to track her down, and his best buddies are right there with him, because thats what best friends do.
Paper Towns morphs into a mystery of sorts, with the teen sleuths unearthing clues that involve Woody Guthrie and Walt Whitman, an abandoned shopping mall in a dicey part of town and snooping in Margos bedroom.
Director Jake Schreier has a nice touch for pacing, and screenwriters Scott Neustadter and Michael H. Weber who also adapted The Fault in Our Stars provide the fine cast with sharp, funny dialogue that sounds true to the ages of the characters and the situations theyre in.
Paper Towns is particularly good at pinpointing that certain point in teenage male friendships where the guys are getting older, but they still sometimes resort to silly voices and goofy humor when the girls arent around. These guys love each other, but they know that once theyre off to separate colleges, theyre more likely to stay in touch on social media than on any consistent, in-person basis.
 century version of tunes you would have heard in a John Hughes movie back in the day. Theres just the right amount of voice-over narration. And once we find out what happened to Margo  suffice to say it feels right.
