Whether you live in McFarland USA or down the street from Glory Road, its a hardly a Miracle if you Remember the Titans to understand Disney has a nearly Invincible formula for sports movies inspired by true events.
It goes something like this. A dedicated and knowledgeable but underachieving coach comes across a raw but remarkably talented individual or team, and is convinced this individual or team could go all the way  if only they can overcome the odds and continue to believe in themselves, even when things seem the most hopeless and the mountain is just too high too climb.
Meanwhile, a worried parental figure thinks the coach might be filling her offspring with crazy dreams that will only lead to inevitable heartbreak.
Cue the big gametryoutmatcheventrace, by which timeweve really come to like and admire the coach and his protg, and darned if we dont find ourselves rooting for them to ACHIEVE THEIR DREAMS as the music swells and the golden-hued cinematography reinforces our emotions.
Even as were aware of the formula and the manipulative tricks, were enjoying the ride.
So it is with Queen of Katwe, which is not about football or track and field or hockey or baseball but the pulse-pounding sport board game? of chess, and while theres no way to make the Smothered Mate or some other checkmate move as cinematically exciting as a last-minute bucket or a ninth-inning home run, this still works as a solid Disney sports movie because of the remarkable story, Mira Nairs energetic and uplifting direction, and one of the most endearing casts Ive enjoyed in any movie this year.
Acting novice Madina Nalwanga is wonderfully natural as Phiona Mutesi, an adolescent girl living with her mother, sister and two brothers in the slums of Katwe in Kampala, Uganda.
Phionas father has passed away, leaving Phionas mother Harriet Lupita Nyongo in a powerful, sometimes heartbreaking, occasionally joyful performance and the children to scrape out a living by selling corn. Their home isnt much more than a glorified tent, but its a home, and theyre a close-knit, loving family.
One day, Phiona stumbles upon a chess club run by Robert Katende David Oyelowo from Selma, a missionary and former football aka soccer standout who uses the game as a tool to teach children strategic thinking and self-worth.
It doesnt take long for Coach to see Phiona has a special affinity for the game. Even though she cant read, she can see the board with amazing clarity and is able to plan three, four, five moves ahead.
Cue the machinery for the Coach to encourage Phiona to get serious about the game, to learn how to read so she can soak up chess strategy and to dream about winning regional, national and even international competitions that could lead to a college scholarship, cash prizes and a ticket for Phiona and her family to leave the slums and have a life theyve never dared even dream about.
And cue Phionas hardworking and street-smart mothers concerns the coach is filling her daughters head with crazy dreams while the family is falling apart.
Queen of Katwe covers more than a half-decade in Phionas story. Nalwanga looks too old to be playing the -year-old we meet at the outset of the story, but we overlook that stretch because shes so good playing the teenage version of Phiona.
Nyongo, who burst to stardom with her Oscar-winning role in  Years a Slave, is an absolute force as Harriet. David Oyelowo Selma deserves supporting actor consideration for his rich and layered work as the coach.
Its a team effort, and even though we know this playbook by heart, cheers all around.
