I wont do it, I wont change a word! Holden would not approve!  J.D. Salinger, rebelling against even the suggestion of changing his prose, in Rebel in the Rye.
nbsp'
The young author J.D. Salinger is walking alone one night when a teenage boy approaches  wearing a red hunting cap, just like Holden Caulfields, and clutching a copy of Salingers recently published sensation, 'The Catcher in the Rye.'
How do you know so much about ME? says the teenager.
I dont, says Salinger. Its just a work of fiction'
But Im Holden! calls out the boy as Salinger walks away. Im Holden Caulfield!
This encounter takes place in Rebel in the Rye, Danny Strongs dramatization of some of the key events in Salingers life. The movie is based on 'J.D. Salinger: A Life,' by Kenneth Slawenski. And though its not a particularly subtle dramatic moment, theres something resonant about it.
Maybe its because we know thousands upon thousands of young people for generations to come would see themselves in Holden' and we know a very tiny percentage of seriously troubled individuals, including John Lennons killer Mark David Chapman, would cling to 'Catcher'as some sort of totem.
 century. How could any movie compare?
With Rebel in the Rye, we get a solid, well-acted and basically standard biopic about the man who created Holden Caulfield, largely in his own image. Nicholas Hoult plays Jerry as cocky and smart-alecky but fragile and self-centered  increasingly more comfortable observing human behavior and immersing himself in his writing than interacting with friends and associates and love interests.
Zooey Deutch has an early, extended cameo as Oona ONeill, who captured the then-unpublished Salingers heart and then broke it by marrying Charlie Chaplin while Salinger was fighting overseas for the Army during World War II. Deutch adds a sassy bit of ss rapid-talking zip to her line readings, as if mimicking the acting style of the day.
Kevin Spacey creates a memorable character in Whit Burnett, the editor of Story magazine and a key early mentor in Salingers development as a writer. Theres something melancholy and real about Burnetts story arc.
Rebel in the Rye concludes with Salinger telling his agent Sarah Paulson he doesnt want to publish any more  that writing has become his religion, and he doesnt feel the need to share it with the outside world. So we dont see the full transformation of Salinger from difficult but still somewhat socially engaged young writer to the ever-more-eccentric author who all but disappeared from the world and from publishing for nearly a half-century, becoming one of the most famous recluses in American history.
We could have stood to see even more of Salingers story, if you ask me.
