As you might recall, in the first Terminator movie, Arnold Schwarzenegger was dispatched from the future to eliminate a woman named Sarah Connor before she could give birth to the leader of a future revolution.
The Terminators methodology was brutally simple. He set about killing ALL the Sarah Connors in the phone book.
You wouldnt expect me to invoke The Terminator in a movie about a -year-old Holocaust survivor with dementia  but Atom Egoyans bold but often ludicrous Remember plays a like a mash-up of The Terminator, Marathon Man and Memento, as filtered through the lens of an old Twilight Zone episode.
The great Christopher Plummer, rising above the sometimes preposterous plot twists, plays the recently widowed Zev Guttman, a resident of an assisted living facility.
Martin Landau plays Zevs friend Max, who tells Zev he is close to tracking down Rudy Kurlander, the Auschwitz officer who carried out the execution of their families in World War II.
Zev is quickly losing his mental faculties, but hes still physically robust. Max is mentally sharp, but he can't get around without awheelchair. He needs Zev to carry out a mission to locate the real Rudy Kurlander  and kill him.
Relying on Maxs instructions, Zev takes to the road and has a number of confrontations with men named Rudy Kurlander  or in the case of the films most memorable scene, the son of a man named Rudy Kurlander.
Dean Norris Breaking Bad plays a state trooper named John Kurlander who at first believes Zev was a dear friend of his father. When John realizes Zev is Jewish and when Zev has a moment of clarity and realizes Johns home is essentially a Nazi shrine, its a chilling, explosive moment.
Attimes Zev has to write on his arm, Memento-style, so he can keep facts straight. He wavers between mourning for his wife and forgetting shes gone. Back at the assisted living facility, Landaus Max keeps pulling the strings, and things get more complicated when Zevs family realizes hes gone missing.
The director Atom Egoyan has made some searing, unforgettable films, e.g., Exotica and The Sweet Hereafter. Sometimes he swings big and misses, as in Devils Knot and The Captive. Working with a script from first-timer Benjamin August, Egoyan delivers a typically stylish and consistently interesting visual product  but the plot goes from eyebrow-raising to intriguing to outlandish to youve got to be kidding me. Even the world-class cast cant save this one from teetering into the abyss.
