The ridiculousness in SelfLess starts with the exaggerated Noo Yawk accent Ben Kingsley employs as a ruthless business tycoon who delights in humiliating young rivals even as hes in the final stages of cancer and has weeks to live.
We all know Sir Ben is a world-class actor. But this accent. Whoa.
Kingsley plays Damian theres an omen, a Manhattan kingpin who has immeasurable wealth he lives in an opulent penthouse dripping with gold  but the one thing he cant buy is more time.
Or can he? Damian plunks down a cool  million to undergo a mysterious, revolutionary and creepy process known as shedding, in which his entire being  a lifetime of experiences and memories, all his personality traits, his very essence  will be transplanted into the body of a young, vital, healthy human being who happens to look exactly like Ryan Reynolds. Good deal!
The always interesting Matthew Goode plays Albright, the scientific genius behind the process. Albright has thick glasses and a British accent and a sinister smile. Spoiler alert: Keep your eye on this Albright character. He looks and sounds like the kind of guy who would deliver a long and condescending speech to James Bond before exiting the sealed chamber where Bond will surely die a slow and painful death.
As Albright explains to Damian, once the transformation into this lab-grownvessel is complete, Damian will assume a new identity and relocate and must never contact anyone from his past, including his estranged daughter Michelle Dockery from Downton Abbey and his best friend and longtime business partner Victor Garber from everything.
Exit Sir Ben, enter Ryan Reynolds as Young Damian, who embarks on a new life in New Orleans that includes a fantastic townhouse Old Damian stashed away millions before he died, fancy sports car and a montage in which he hits the clubs with his new best friend Anton Derek Luke, excellent, parties like its  and beds down a medley of women who will get billing along the lines of Beautiful Girl  and Dancer . Those are actual credits in the IMDB listing for SelfLess.
Its all pretty great, but if Young Damian doesnt take his giant red pills on a regular basis, hell short-circuit. Seizures, bizarre false memories, flashbacks to a life he never had  but whose life is it?
SelfLess has echoes of better movies, from John Frankenheimers  sci-fi thriller Seconds to Total Recall to The Matrix to the Jason Bourne films. Young Damians investigation into the weird flashbacks hes having takes him to Natalie Martinez Madeline, a widowed mother with a young daughter, and soon theyre on the run and dodging bullets and fending off a small army of villains whowant them all dead. Young Damian bonds with the little girl and gets a second chance at being a good father, though that would be little consolation to Michelle Dockerys character back in New York, who believes her crusty old dad is dead without them ever reconciling.
Directed by Tarsem Singh, who is capable of delivering some astonishing visuals see The Cell, this is a conventional-looking films with a screenplay from brothers David and Alex Pastor that raises some fascinating issues and offers a tease or two of a better movie before devolving into chases and shootouts.
Young Damian is surprised to learn he has Special Forces-level fighting skills. Anton turns out to be a whole lot more interesting than just a thunder buddy for Young Damian. For a guy who charges a quarter-billion dollars for every procedure, Albright has a rather flimsy front for his complex operation headquarters.
Along the way, the film stops asking questions about the nature of mortality and the lengths to which men will go to gain another  years of life. We dont see evidence of any women shedding. Reynolds is a likable actor and a decent action hero' Martinez does her best playing a character whoaccepts some insane, mind-blowing explanations far too easily' Luke is terrific. But everyone sinks into the quagmire of mediocrity.
One other thing: Why does just about everyone in just about every kind of movie dream of a happily ever after on a remote tropical island with turquoise waters? Sure, thats a great vacation, but after a few years, wouldnt you be bored out of your mind?
