Color is a special effect in the dark, exhilarating, wonderfully grisly Frank Millers Sin City : A Dame to Kill For.
Most of the film is in spectacular, stunning shades of black and white, but every once in a while theres a gorgeous flash of color: the green in someones eyes, the dark magenta of a womans hair, a blue coat and  this being a Sin City movie  a brassy gold orb where once there was a human eye.
Jessica Albas also a special effect in this movie. Shes not the most versatile actress out there, but something about the role of Nancy, the good girl turned exotic dancer, brings out the best in Alba, and Im not just talking about her moves on the dance floor.
Well circle back to that role and that storyline in a bit. Theres a lot of movie going on with a sequel that comes nearly a decade after the first Sin City, which still ranks among the finest graphic novel adaptations ever. If you havent seen it, please do.
As was the case with the original, A Dame to Kill For features multiple and occasionally overlapping storylines, each of them served by a narrator  usually a booze-soaked, world-weary anti-hero obsessed with taking down a longtime enemy or protecting a temptress in distress. The blazingly talented Robert Rodriguez co-directs with Frank Miller, the creator of the Sin City books. Some of the stories here are based on Millers books' two plot threads were created for the movie.
What a lineup of actors, all pouring themselves into the Sin City universe and bringing a level of authenticity to their work, even against the super-stylized sets and special effects that make us feel as if were immersed in the pages of Millers iconic series. Returning cast members include the aforementioned Ms. Alba, Bruce Willis, Mickey Rourke, Rosario Dawson, Powers Boothe and Jaime King. Just some of the newcomers: Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Josh Brolin, Dennis Haysbert, Ray Liotta, Jeremy Piven and, yep, thats Lady Gaga in a cameo role.
Gordon-Levitt plays Johnny, a lucky penny of a gambler who works his way into a private poker game held in the backroom of the joint where Albas Nancy works as a dancer. Powers Boothes Sen. Roark hosts the game, and given that Roark owns Sin City and makes a game out of destroying his enemies, its little wonder theres an open seat at the table when Johnny strolls in, intent on bringing down the devil himself. Suffice to say Johnnys better at reading cards than reading certain situations.
Meanwhile, Mickey Rourkes anvil-faced Marv is watching over Nancy, looking for any excuse for a brawl and befriending Brolins Dwight McCarthy, a former newspaper photographer now working as a low-level private investigator who takes pics of cheating spouses. In the  film, Clive Owen played Dwight. Four years after Eva Greens Ava left Dwight and left him devastated, she returns with a story  a story while shes nude and seducing Dwight all over again. Ava needs Dwights help, and, like nearly every man who comes within smoldering distance of Ava, hes powerless to resist her.
Then theres Nancy Callahan, still tearing it up as an exotic dancer, only now shes drowning in a puddle of booze, still in mourning for Willis Lt. Hartigan, and trying to work up the courage to kill Sen. Roark.
Each storyline is punctuated by bursts of creative violence, including but not limited to some of the more inventive sword-work this side of the Kill Bill movies. Blood is spilled by the bucketful, bones are cracked, faces are disfigured, bodies are riddled with bullets. Its sickens me sometimes to hear audiences laughing with appreciation at violence in some movies, but this is a graphic novel brought to motion, and its SUPPOSED to be a dark and violent thrill ride, and as such its extremely effective. When you die in a Sin City movie, you die hard.
Rourke, Brolin and Gordon-Levitt are standouts as the leads in their respective stories. Eva Green is a fearless actress who can be completely naked and still not come across as the least bit vulnerable. Ava is one manipulative operator, and the ways in which she traps men in her web are hilarious.
Alba is all fire and ice as the heartbroken, revenge-seeking, self-destructive Nancy. Wily veterans such as Ray Liotta, Stacy Keach, Christopher Lloyd and Christopher Meloni each get just a few minutes of screen time, but they all rip it.
Its got to be a lot of fun to shoot a Sin City movie. Sure, theres plenty of green-screen work, and many of the actors are no doubt spending hours in the makeup chair, but you get to wear badass outfits, drive vintage cars, wield swords and knives and guns  and if youre cast in the right role, you get to steam up the screen with an Eva Green. And the women are in on the fun too. I cant give you an exact count, but Id be willing to bet the ladies execute more quality kills in A Dame to Kill For than the fellas.
I would have liked to see more of Johnny, the Gordon-Levitt character. And thats the one story that didnt quite deliver on its promise.
Still. This is one badass movie. Rodriguez and Miller are reportedly planning on a Sin City . Heres hoping we dont have to wait nine years again.
Email: rroepersuntimes.com
Twitter: richardroeper
'FRANK MILLER'S SIN CITY: A DAME TO KILL FOR'
