In a film about a magician, the most impressive trick in Sleight is how director and co-writer J.D. Dillard is able to spin such a memorable and unique tale on a micro-budget.
Get Out, this is a non-traditional, multi-genre film with impressive cinematography, a smart screenplay with some creative twists  and brilliant performances from the lead players.
Jacob Lattimore gives a star-making performance as Bo, who has been thrust into the role of caregiver for his little sister Tina the adorable Storm Reid after both their parents die. A scene in which Tina almost sets their apartment on fire early one morning while trying to surprise Bo with breakfast perfectly establishes the loving dynamic between the two.
Lattimore is playing a deeply flawed character whodoes some monstrous things but clearly possesses a great deal of humanity as well, and he elicits our empathy with his natural, likable onscreen persona. Bo can be arrogant to the point of recklessness, but hes also capable of sweet compassion and selfless actions when circumstances require. Its an impressively layered piece of acting  one of the best performances of the year.
Bo is a talented street magician with an uncanny ability to pick pockets and levitate objects, but the crumpled dollar bills and spare change dropped in his hat arent nearly enough for him support Tina.
RELATED: 'The Chi' star Jacob Latimore says Chicago's like New York, 'but much calmer'
In fact, Bos primary source of cash comes from a much darker profession: selling drugs under the umbrella of a Los Angeles kingpin named Angelo Dule Hill, who has the soul of a psychopath lurking beneath his sophisticated social exterior. Bos been doing it for a year  much longer than he had counted on. He thought it would be a way to make some quick cash, but now hes trapped in the life.
For a brief interlude, Bos world actually seems to be moving in the right direction. He dreams about getting out of the drug selling business. He meets a wonderful, intelligent, stunningly beautiful college student named Holly Seychelle Gabriel, and they fall for each other fast and hard.
We even get some much-needed comedic relief, courtesy of a sequence where a street-dumb white guy tries to buy Molly from Bo and asks a series of questions about how much he should pay, how it works, etc., which concludes with Bo telling the guy, Dont buy drugs to impress girls.
Quickly, though, storm clouds overwhelm Bos life. Angelo forces Bo to execute a violent act of retribution on a rival dealer. Bos attempts to get out from under Angelos rule only serve to plunge him deeper into trouble, to the point where his life is in danger and he might lose Tina. And we learn some heavy, heartbreaking truths about Hollys life as well.
Director and co-writer Dillard spins a story thats part domestic drama, part romance, part crime thriller  but as Sleight unwinds, we realize its also something else.
Its an origins story of sorts, and Ill say no more than that.
The veteran character actor Dule Hill gives one of the most memorable performances of his career as the drug dealer Angelo. Seychelle Gabriel demonstrates big-movie, leading-lady star power potential with her winning and quite moving work. Add to that Lattimores electric work, and theres not a scene in Sleight that doesnt jump off the screen.
