They should have just stayed home. There was plenty of comedy to be found right there.
Ah, such a missed opportunity. The tantalizing enticement of Goldie Hawn pairing with Amy Schumer for a mother-daughter, road-trip buddy comedy has some moments, but never fulfills its promise.
As their onscreen adventures and antics grow zanier and broader, the laughs actually grow softer and more sporadic.
When Hawn and Schumer are playing verbal tennis, trading passive-aggressive criticisms along with genuinely affectionate observations as only a mother and her grown daughter can, its mainstream movie comedy at a high level  an absolute delight to witness.
When theyre slogging through the jungle, valiantly but unsuccessfully trying to wring laughs out of an unfunny, gross-out tapeworm sequence or involved in the th allegedly humorous slow-mo hero walk parody in recent movie history, we find ourselves wishing theyd found a better premise, a stronger script, sharper lines.
Trainwreck  one of my favorite performances in one of my favorite comedies in recent years. Her Emily Middleton is not particularly likable at first blush and also aimless, self-absorbed and without ambition.
In short order, Emily is fired from her retail job and dumped by her musician boyfriend just before their scheduled and non-refundable vacation to Ecuador. None of Emilys friends take her up on the offer of a free trip, so Emily invites her divorced, cat-loving mother Linda Hawn to come along.
Heres the thing though. Emily has such an off-putting personality we totally understand why she got fired, why she got dumped and why none of her friends would want to travel with her. Yes, thats the launching point for any number of comedies in which the selfish lead becomes a better person after hitting rock bottom  but Emilys growth is thinly sketched and implausible even in the context of a raunchy, R-rated film.
When Emily visits her mom at home and spars with her weirdo brother Jeffrey the always likable Ike Barinholtz, who claims to be suffering from agoraphobia, calls his mother Muh-MA as if hes  and pouts when the bread isnt warm, thats good stuff. When Emily makes a passionate, woman-power speech trying to convince her mother to come along on the vacation  its a well-played scene.
RELATED: Ike Barinholtz explains why his 'Snatched' character says 'Muh-MA'
But once Emily and Linda are on vacation, most of the scenes feel forced and exaggerated.
Wanda Sykes has an over-the-top role as Ruth, a fellow vacationer who introduces herself to Emily and Linda at the resort and points out her friend Barb Joan Cusack, a newly retired Special Ops operative who, were told, cut out her own tongue upon leaving the job so it would be impossible for her to spill any secrets no matter how severe the torture.
But couldnt they just force her to write down the information? asks Emily, and thats kind of funny, but its also a tipoff the story is about to go slapstick big.
Emily meets a dashing stranger named James Tom Bateman, who sweeps her off her feet and takes her out for a night to remember. Like just about everything else that happens in Snatched from that point forward, James true purpose is easily discerned well before its revealed.
Soon thereafter, Emily and Linda find themselves in the clutches of the universally feared bad guy Morgado Oscar Jaenada, a ponytailed villain who comes across as being slightly less menacing than an angry chef on a reality show.
As they escape and are caught again, escape and are caught again, mother and daughter deal with their long-simmering issues. The best relationship comedies produce genuinely effective dramatic moments as well. Thats not the case here.
Christopher Meloni pops in as the dashing, Indiana Jones-like Roger, a seemingly experienced guide who looks and talks like someone who has watched a LOT of movies about rogue American expatriates. Rogers story arc is flat-out fantastic and funny. Too bad we didnt have more of Roger.
Even at a running time of  minutes, Snatched feels stretched beyond its plot possibilities. The big action climax is not particularly well-conceived or well-staged, and the epilogue is equally unsatisfying.
If the filmmakers had placed Goldie Hawn and Amy Schumer on a set as mother and daughter, and had invited talents such as Barinholtz, Cusack, Sykes, Meloni et al., to stop by in character, and then encouraged everyone to improvise for  minutes, Im thinking that might have been a more interesting movie than the wild and crazy jungle adventure of Snatched.
