Just five minutes into this movie, I was digging the creepyTwilight Zone vibe and I was hoping the rest of the journey would continue down the same mind-bending, chilling path.
I was not disappointed.
Southbound is a five-segment horror anthology from the directors of VHS, with each chapter set on or near a forsaken stretch of American Southwest highway that seems to cut right through Purgatory. Its one of the smartest and scariest movies in recent memory.
We get some genuinely shocking and disgusting gross-out moments' clever and disturbing use of sound effects' multiple wicked plot delights' cool, drive-in-theater visuals, and some nifty overlapping plot elements.
A radio host Larry Fessenden provides the voice-over narrative linking the five stories. Regret and remorse, amends and atonement, thats life, right? Well, this next one is for you. All you lost souls racing down that long road to redemption, says the disembodied voice near the outset of the tale.
We begin with The Way Out, with two blood-spattered men Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Chad Villella, who may or may not be criminals, in a pickup truck and arriving at a gas stationdiner in the middle of nowhere  and then finding themselves on a continuous loop, arriving at the same joint over and over again, until theyre confronted by an inexplicable, insane threat.
Next up is Siren, featuring a trio of young female rockers Hannah Marks, Nathalie Love, Fabianne Therese, who until recently were a quartet, in a lime-green VW bus sidelined by a tire blowout on the same stretch of highway we just saw in The Way Out.
When a seemingly well-intentioned couple stops to help out, the girls clearly havent done their horror-movie homework  because after initially refusing to jump in the car, they accept the kindness of these strangers. Next thing you know, its time for a spooky dinner scene featuring obligatory Super Scary Twins who are older than the usual Super Scary Twins we see in horror films, and THEN 
Well. Youll see.
The third and most skilled entry in the anthology is Accident, directed by David Bruckner.
A man named Lucas Mather Zickel is driving a Volvo and zipping down the highway, on the phone with his girlfriend, who is sending him photos of herself in various outfits.
He looks up  but not in time to avoid hitting a young woman squarely in his path.
In a standard-issue horror movie, Lucas would get out of the car, see how seriously the woman is injured and race back to his car and leave her to die. Lucas, however, actually calls  and stays on the scene  but when he describes the victims injuries to a dispatcher who puts an EMT on the line as well, hes told the only way to save her is to drive her to the nearest hospital.
Only one problem: Theres no one at the hospital. Not a single soul. The women on the phone tell the man its up to him to perform life-saving surgery. Theyll guide him through it.
What follows is brutal, gory, wickedly funny, demented  and worthy of Stephen Kings darkest nightmares.
Next up is Jailbreak, a nasty little gem with David Yow as Danny, hell-bent on rescuing his sister Tipper Newton, who has been missing for a decade  and might not consider herself in need of being saved. Its maybe the least effective of the five entries, but that means its more of a three-star short than something exceptional. Even the weakest link in this chain is a cut above most horror fare.
We close with The Way In, and by that title we know its a bookend of sorts to that opening chapter, The Way Out. As a couple prepares to send their daughter off to college on a quiet night, a gang of masked intruders surround the house and close in  and let the chills begin. Of all the masked intruders in all the movies featuring masked intruders, these masked intruders are as terrifying as they come.
But just when we think weve got it all figured out, Southbound serves up another deliciously bloody twist.
