If you love movies, Steven Spielberg has given you more lasting and treasured gifts than youve received on all of your birthdays put together.
Think of it this way: If the credits for all of Spielbergs films, from Jaws to Close Encounters, from Raiders of the Lost Ark to E.T., from The Color Purple to Jurassic Park, from Schindlers List to Saving Private Ryan, were divided among five directors, wed say each of those five directors had a prolific and versatile and wildly successful career.
That one man has directed more than  films, and about  of those films are either damn entertaining, great or timeless masterpieces, is a breathtaking accomplishment.
So yes, if were going to talk about filmmakers who deserve a two-and-half-hour documentary and there are many, the first one that comes to mind is Steven Spielberg.
Premiering Saturday on HBO, Spielberg is an insightful, comprehensive, entertaining and sprawling insiders look at the boy genius who is now  but has never lost his childlike sense of wonder  or his gift for storytelling.
Spielberg sat down with director Susan Lacy creator of the legendary PBS American Masters series for some  hours of interviews, offering warm memories from his early days as a childhood filmmaker, fascinating anecdotes about the making of so many of his memorable hits and passionate conversation about influences such as the films of Stanley Kubrick, and David Leans Lawrence of Arabia.
The film also features interviews with Spielbergs sisters, his parents, actorfans such as Ralph Fiennes, Tom Hanks, Liam Neeson, Sally Field and Leonardo DiCaprio  and the peers who came up with him in the s and are now the old lions of Hollywood' Francis Coppola, Brian De Palma, Martin Scorsese, George Lucas.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?w'h" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?w" class"size-medium wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.combecfabaffaaccabfccbfeabae.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
The young Steven Spielberg, as seen in the documentary 'Spielberg.'  Courtesy of HBO
As you might expect, those guys shot a LOT of home movie footage back in the day. We see a snippet from the early s, when Spielberg and the aforementioned are playing pool, and Spielberg is telling George as in Lucas how to frame the shot as Spielberg lines up his cue.
Steven had the first car phone, says Brian De Palma, and we cut to grainy footage of Spielberg in his car, wielding a phone the size of his head. As De Palma tells it, theyd call girls on the car phone and say theyd swing by  but theyd already be outside their door. Miraculous!
Lucas talks about how none of them expected to ever make any money from their movies. Ahem. Spielberg recalls them all seeing a print of Star Wars without the special effects, and a subsequent dinner in which De Palma suggested the now-famous opening crawl to Lucas. Later, Spielberg would offer suggestions to De Palma about how to stage the famous staircase shootout in Scarface.
Director Lacy sprinkles in classic clips from some of Spielbergs most memorable films, as well as behind-the-scenes footage. Some of the stories have been told many, many time, e.g., a young Spielberg supposedly sneaking onto the lot at Universal and setting up an office for six months. According to Spielberg, he didnt exactly sneak onto the lot: He took a public tour bus, went to the bathroom  and stayed in the bathroom until I could hear a pin drop.
Many other stories are fresh. He would be literally running with a camera, a handheld camera, following us, recalls Liam Neeson about the making of Schindlers List.
Were reminded of Spielbergs incredible eye for stunning visuals, from things as monumental as the spaceship in Close Encounters and the dinosaurs in Jurassic Park and the Omaha Beach invasion in Saving Private Ryan to something as small and yet equally powerful as the girl in the red coat in Schindlers List.
This is a fitting and thorough tribute to a director whose work has left an enormous footprint on the popular culture.
