The writer-director M. Night Shyamalan shook up the movie world in the late s and early s with beautifully constructed, breathtakingly original films such as The Sixth Sense, Unbreakable and Signs.
For about a decade, and M. Night film was an Event Film. You wanted to see it on opening night, to experience the supernatural journey unfettered before anyone could spoil the twists and turns.
And then, not so much.
Even as the numbers of moviegoers decreased and critics increased with nearly every new Shyamalan release, I stayed with him through The Village and Lady in the Water and even The Happening  but by the time we got to the likes of The Last Airbender and After Earth, I was off the bandwagon along with just about everyone else.
Heres the news. With the chilling, creepy, bold and sometimes bat-bleep absurd Split, the -year-old Shyamalan serves notice hes still got some nifty plot tricks up his sleeve and he hasnt lost his masterful touch as a director.
This is a gripping thriller of the mind thatll make the hairs on the back of your neck stand up. Its also funny as hell just when it needs to be.
Like Unbreakable, the Philadelphia-set Split takes a comic bookgraphic novel approach, with one foot based in reality and the other crossing the boundary into supernatural conjecture. James McAvoy the young Professor X in the X-Men prequels is handed a plum of a role and does wonders with it, playing a man named Kevin who has some  different and distinct personalities living inside him and taking turns in the light, i.e., taking over Kevins body. Weve got the fashion designer Barry, a flamboyant, gentle sort' the intense and smart and physically intimidating Dennis' the -year-old mischief-maker Hedwig, and Miss Patricia, a gentlewoman of some manners, among others.
Yes, Kevin has Dissociative Identity Disorder, and yes, some mental health advocates are protesting Split and calling for a boycott  but its difficult to imagine any adult seeing this film and believing for a second its an attempt to be a scientific, seriously analytical take on DID, any more than Psycho or Dressed to Kill or Identity or Fight Club.
In the middle of the afternoon, Kevin abducts three teenage girls: the popular Claire Haley Lu Richardson and Marcia Jessica Sula, who are close friends, and the outcast Casey Anya Taylor-Joy, who happened to be in their company at the wrong place and the wrong time.
The three girls wake up in a claustrophobia-inducing underground bunker. The ingenious set design and the brilliant cinematography by Mike Gioulakis are major contributors to the consistently tense vibe.
We see Kevins various personalities emerge through the eyes of the girls, who alternate between crying and cowering and giving themselves pep talks before trying to escape.
Meanwhile, the personality known as Barry makes frequent visits to Dr. Fletcher Betty Buckley, who has made a career of treating patients with DID and is a firm believer they are special, gifted human beings with different persons  not different personalities, different persons  occupying their physical shell. Theres talk of a woman who was blind but regained her sight because other persons within her could see, and a man who could lift three times his weight when a certain strongman within him emerged.
Casey is so detached and so resigned to the situation, we wonder if she actually knows Kevin and is somehow in on the abduction  but then we learn about Caseys past through a series of increasingly disturbing flashbacks, and we begin to understand where shes coming from.
The script calls for McAvoy to hit some big broad notes as an actor, especially when Hedwig becomes Dennis becomes yet another person I dont want to say any more on camera, in close-up. Hes helped by some makeup and a touch of CGI wizardry, but the transitions are mostly in the performances  and its a damn good one. When Hedwig or Patricia come to life, we can see how the girls come to believe theyre talking to a -year-old boy or a prim and proper woman.
At times potential victims perform classic horror-movie rookie mistakes, whether its not taking advantage of an opportunity to escape, or walking deeper into a trap when its pretty obvious its time to call . And when we reach the final  minutes or so of Split and all is revealed, Shyamalan is taking the kind of chances that no doubt will result in some viewers rolling their eyes.
Not this guy. I went with it. I got back on that M. Night bandwagon, and the finish line in particular was just spectacularly fantastic.
