Ask anyone who has worked for a newspaper to name the best movie ever made about our profession, and its an upset when All the Presidents Men isnt the first title mentioned.
Tom McCarthys Spotlight isnt quite as memorable as Alan J. Pakula's  gold-standard classic with Robert Redford and Dustin Hoffman as Woodward and Bernstein, but its one of the best movies Ive ever seen about the art and the science of newspaper reporting  and in particular that special breed of journalist who does important investigative work that involves a detectives instinct, soul-sucking research, fierce determination, exhaustive hours and accepting the fact almost nobody is happy to hear from you when you call them and identify yourself.
The Boston Globes Spotlight crew consisted of an editor and a small handful of reporters who toiledin a subterranean office of the paper, working major stories for weeks or even months. When the Spotlight logo appeared in the Globe, there was a good chance someone was going to be indicted, or major changes would be enacted  or the greater Boston community would learn something they never knew about their beloved city.
Spotlight kicks off in , as Liev Schreibers Marty Baron, formerly of the Miami Herald, arrived as the Globes new editor-in-chief.
More than  percent of the Globes readership was Catholic' Marty was Jewish. Nearly everyone in the newsroom was from Boston or had family ties to the city' Marty didnt. He was ultimate outsider  not necessarily a disadvantage when it comes to marshaling objective reporting that could target previously untouchable institutions and figures, i.e., Cardinal Law and the Catholic Church.
Intrigued by a story about an abrasive, wild-card Armenian attorney named Mitchell Garabedian Stanley Tucci who is representing numerous families alleging their children were abused by priests, and tales of the Church responding to these allegations by offering small cash settlements and transferring the offending priests to other parishes where they would have access to more children, Baron assigns the Spotlight team to investigate.
Is there a wide-ranging conspiracy to suppress the truth? Is the Church hierarchy actually complicit in allowing monsters in collars to molest children? And would the Globe actually have the, um, nerve to go after the most revered and powerful institution in the city?
RELATED: Stanley Tucci says he plays 'the quintessential little guy'
Michael Keaton who starred as an ink-stained wretch in Ron Howards excellent The Paper in  is Walter Robby Robinson, the beloved editor of the Spotlight team, which consists of Rachel McAdams Sacha Pfeiffer Mark Ruffalos Michael Rezendes and Brian dArcy James Matt Carroll.
What a fine team of actors portraying such a fine team of journalists. I believed every inch of all four performances, from Pfeiffers utter indifference to her wardrobe and her dogged efforts to obtain key interviews' to Rezendes obnoxiously aggressive methods' to Carrolls feelings of conflict when family and journalistic ethics collide  to the terrible eating habits of one and all. Yep, theyre journalists all right.
John Slattery from Mad Men is the Globes deputy editor, one Ben Bradlee Jr., son of the Washington Post editor played by Jason Robards in All the Presidents Men. The mere mention of the Bradlee name is enough to remind us of All the Presidents Men, and Spotlight is a confident enough film to embrace the comparison.
As the Spotlight team digs deep, finding victims and encouraging them to talk, uncovering evidence indicating dozens of priests in the Boston area were accused of abuse, Spotlight becomes a procedural about print journalism. Its not easy to make an emotionally involving film in which some of the most pivotal moments are about phone calls and making copies of documents and a source circling names on a document  but save for a few overly dry moments, Spotlight prevails. Its one of the smartest and most involving movies of the years.
Keaton as Robby rocks every scene hes in. Robby attended high school literally across the street from the Globe. He knows just about everyone in town, and just about everyone knows him. High-ranking officials with Catholic Charities, attorneys who worked for the church, even the Cardinal himself  they all trust Robby will do whats best.
What they dont understand is Robby is a journalist through and through, and for him whats best is uncovering the truth, making sure that truth is extremely well sourced  and sharing that truth with the city.
