Bill Murrays best movies are Groundhog Day, Lost in Translation and Broken Flowers, in that order, and while St. Vincent doesnt crack the Murray Top Three for me, its a prime showcase for his skill set.
If St. Vincent writer-director Ted Melfi hadnt somehow landed the notoriously elusive Murray for the lead, this film easily could have slipped from sentimental to mawkish, from heartwarming to shamelessly corny. 
As it is, we pretty much know where this movie is headed from the moment a newly single mother Melissa McCarthy and her precocious and charmingly nerdy -year-old son Oliver Jaeden Lieberher move to Brooklyn and find themselves next door to the grizzled, chain-smoking, gamblerdrinkerprofessional ass'- Vincent.
This guys such a mess hes usually bleeding or bandaged from some drinking-related injury. The only person he seems to care about is a pregnant Russian prostitute named Daka, and kudos to Naomi Watts for giving this hooker with a heart of gold an accent just this shy of Natasha Fatale from The Bullwinkle Show.
Much of this territory has been covered in films such as Bad Santa: nasty curmudgeon gets stuck watching kid who refuses to be cowed by nasty curmudgeons bark, and over the course of many adventures in which convention is thrown out the window, laws are bent and setbacks are sustained, a bond is forged and '
Well. You know the rest. What do you expect, a movie in which the old cuss is charged with child endangerment and the mom and the little dude move away?
Set mostly in Brooklyn, St. Vincent is the kind of movie where there seems to be just the one bar where Vincent hangs, and the same people are in the same seats at the tavern no matter the time of day or night. In an early scene, Melfi tips his hand about his intentions to make a sentimental movie that always feels like a movie when Vincent blasts the Jefferson Airplanes Somebody to Love on the jukebox and engages in a blissful solo dance. Aw, Vincent wants somebody to love. Also, maybe he was in Vietnam?
 The Art Institute moment that saved Bill Murray's career
Its nice to see Melissa McCarthy playing a role where she doesnt have to roll around in mud or wrestle somebody. Shes mostly a straight woman to Murrays antics. McCarthys Maggie is an MRI technician who has to pick up as many shifts as possible, and with nowhere else to turn, she asks the terminally unemployed Vincent if hell watch the kid. If Maggie turns to Craigslist or a babysitting service, we dont have a movie.
Sure, says Vincent. Ill watch the kid. For  bucks an hour, and the rate goes up if Maggie has to work late.
Cue the adventures of Vincent and Oliver, involving all sorts of clichs, including school bullies' a Catholic priest Chris ODowd' a menacing bookie Terrence Howard threatening Vincents health, and dont forget the pregnant Daka, who wobbles around on her high heels and spouts one-liners in her ridiculous accent.
Nearly every scene is contrived, but Melfi has a nice way with dialogue, and the cast is uniformly outstanding. Murray of course is in his comfort zone playing an oversized version of Bill Murray I play myself, he told Howard Stern in a recent interview, but hes so great at playing Bill Murray. The little physical bits, the offhand way of delivering a sly one-liner, the perfectly executed roll of the eyes or semi-smirk. He has the expressiveness of a silent film star.
The adult supporting players are all excellent, but next to Murray, the key casting is Jaeden Lieberher as young Oliver. The kid is a natural in the sidekick role, never once playing it too cute or too actor-y.
Will Murray win an Oscar for St. Vincent? Probably not. The role might be too light to win over the Academy. A Golden Globe is more likely, given that goofy musical or comedy category they have.
