Its possible we spend more time backstage with the principals in Steve Jobs than we did with the main characters in A Chorus Line, All That Jazz and maybe even Birdman, come to think of it.
Its an eccentric storytelling choice on the part of the blazingly talented screenwriter Aaron Sorkin The Social Network, A Few Good Men, et al. and the equally gifted director Danny Boyle Trainspotting, Slumdog Millionaire and its certainly not the most commercially accessible method to biopic the patron saint of desktops, laptops, portable music libraries, phones and amazing touchpads of various sizes.
But as can be said of most Apple products, its a wonder to behold  despite a few irritating glitches.
Michael Fassbender will be in every best actor conversation from now until Oscar night and deservedly so for his mesmerizing turn as the legendary and legendarily difficult visionary Jobs, who became arguably the most influential and most famous powerhouse the computer universe has ever known, despite the fact he wasnt an engineer or a designer or a programmer.
As Jobs matter-of-factly puts it with blinding, unbridled ego, he was more like a symphony conductor. As Jobs saw it, bright shining minds such as his old garage mate Steve Wozniak were like talented musicians with seats in the front row in the orchestra pit  but they were nothing without Jobs the magnificent, the conductor who put it all together and created lasting greatness.
RELATED: Aaron Sorkin tells Richard Roeper about the making of 'Steve Jobs'
Steve Jobs is adapted from Walter Isaacsons terrific non-fiction biography, and many of the basic plot points are based on public events and well-researched reportage, but Sorkin and Boyle have fictionalized that foundation into three distinctive, highly impressionistic acts of about  minutes apiece, each act centered around the drama surrounding Jobs in the minutes and seconds before he takes the stage to introduce the Next Big Thing.
Act One introduces us to Jobs in , a couple of days after the famous  Super Bowl ad, as hes about to unveil the Macintosh.
Act Two takes place in , after Jobs parted ways with Apple in spectacularly controversial fashion and was preparing to introduce the world to the NeXT Cube.
Act Three is in , with the prodigal Jobs back with Apple and about to change the world with the introduction of the iMac.
In the first act, Fassbenders Jobs looks and acts more like the villain in a superhero movie than a tech guru. Hes lean and muscled, he wears a suit and a bow tie, he berates and threatens to humiliate underlings if they cant make things perfect by the time he takes to the stage to introduce the Macintosh  and hes cruelly dismissive of ex-girlfriend Chrisann Brennan Katherine Waterston and only slightly less so when it comes to her -year-old daughter Lisa Makenzie Moss, whom everyone but Jobs recognizes as Jobs daughter.
The same key figures in Jobs life show up backstage prior to each unveiling. Sometimes it makes perfect sense for them to be there' on a few occasions, its such an abstract conceit, we almost wonder if Jobs is hallucinating.
An almost unrecognizable Kate Winslet working some kind of Polish accent, to varying degrees of success plays Jobs marketing guru and confidante.
The great Jeff Daniels already a master of Sorkin-speak due to Newsroom plays Apple CEO John Sculley, a father figure who clearly loves Jobs but is more frustrated than most by Jobs unwillingness to compromise or listen to reason.
Michael Stuhlbarg is Andy Hertzfeld, a founding member of the Apple Macintosh development team. Seth Rogen is terrific as Steve Wozniak, who pleads with Jobs to make some sort of effort to be a decent human being. Its not binary! says Woz to Jobs in a futile effort to explain you can be a genius  AND compassionate.
Ripley Sobo plays daughter Lisa at age . Perla Haney-Jardine takes over the role when Lisa is . It just seems  weird that Jobs and his daughter have so many dramatic, life-changing moments just minutes before hes about to introduce a new product, but most of it works, thanks to Fassbenders brilliance, Sorkins sharp dialogue and the fine work of all three actresses playing Lisa.
Boyles camera swerves and zooms and swoops around Jobs as he rehearses his presentations, engages in heated debate with present and former allies, bats away attempts by others to pierce his armor and awkwardly attempts to connect with his daughter.
Each leg of the trilogy has a distinctive visual personality. Act One was shot in mm film' Act Two in mm' Act Three in digital so crisp it jumps from the screen. Its gimmick as art.
As was the case with The Social Network screenplay by Sorkin and its portrayal of Mark Zuckerberg and the birth of Facebook, were reminded time and again in Steve Jobs that a man who revolutionized communication and helped hundreds of millions to connect was himself incredibly incompetent at human interaction. Its Shakespearean-level irony.
Your products are better than you are, Jobs is told at one point.
Thats the idea, he replies.
