Boston or Chicago, Kansas City or Sacramento, big city or small town, everyone knows a Jeff Bauman.
Or two. Or seven.
When we meet Jake Gyllenhaals Jeff at the outset of Stronger, hes in his late s but still living in a cramped two-bedroom apartment with his Ma.
Jeffs kind of a harmless minor screw-up. Hes a good-natured, good-looking guy with a mop of unruly hair, a crooked smile and a talent for charming his way out of trouble when he messes up on the job at Costco.
He loves his beer and his buddies and his Red Sox. He loves his on-and-off girlfriend as well, but shes broken up with him three times because he never shows up for anything and she cant get him off the couch most days.
An ordinary guy with an ordinary life  until early afternoon on April , , when Jeff was standing near the finish line of the Boston Marathon to cheer on and hopefully win back his ex, and a bomb exploded almost directly underneath him, and the injuries to his lower extremities were so severe doctors had to amputate both legs above the knee.
Director David Gordon Greens Stronger is the dramatization of Jeffs story. It is a straightforward and of course inspirational and at times profoundly moving tale, and even though we can predict just about every note it will strike before the opening credits roll, Green and screenwriter John Pollono and the outstanding cast elevate the material and make it something special and memorable.
Sure, we get scenes where Jeff is overcome by physical pain and psychological trauma, and scenes where he drinks himself into a stupor and skips his rehab sessions, and scenes in which he literally picks himself up and resumes his quest to one day walk again. All done by the book, and all executed quite well.
What makes Stronger stand out is the pitch-perfect feel for the dynamic of a loud and constantly bickering and dysfunctional but fiercely loyal and loving extended family, and the nuances of a loving relationship between two people who should spend the rest of their lives together if one of them doesnt chuck it all away out of stupidity and stubbornness  and almost unbearable pressure put on Jeff by a city and a country that labeled him a hero and made him the symbol of Boston Strong without bothering to ask if he wanted to wear that crown.
Oprah is coming to town! Jeffs mother announces triumphantly at a family barbecue. Shes going to interview Jeff the day after tomorrow.
The look on Jeffs face is one of absolute terror.
Jake Gyllenhaals portrayal of Jeff is a finely calibrated performance  one of the best of his career and deserving of nomination talk. He dives into the Boston accent and wears it well. Even though Gyllenhaal is a bona fide movie star, we believe him when hes taking out the trash at Costco, we believe him when hes getting stupid drunk with his friends, we believe him when he lashes out at his girlfriend, his mother, the world. Its brilliant work.
Tatiana Maslany Orphan Black as Erin has the obligatory Long-Suffering Girlfriend role and at times shes almost TOO saintly  but when Erin finally explodes at Jeff when Jeff disappoints her once again and literally leaves him stranded and helpless, her furious coldness humanizes her. In that moment, Maslany actually makes us more sympathetic to Erin. We already know shes a wonderful person with tons of heart. Its a relief to see can dish it out as well as she can take it.
Also sure to attract awards buzz is Miranda Richardsons work as Jeffs hard-drinking, tough-talking, overly protective mother. As written and as played by Richardson, its the stuff of best supporting actress victories. Richardson has ample opportunities to hit big and bold notes. Mom drinks hard and laughs loud and never shies away from confrontation  and though she clearly loves Jeff with all her heart, shes perhaps just a little bit too eager to explore all the opportunities coming Jeffs way now that hes a hero, as she keeps calling him.
How am I a hero because I happened to be standing next to a bomb, Jeff wonders more than once.
When the answer to that question finally presents itself, its a moment of clarity for Jeff  and his reaction to that revelation is indeed heroic.
