Liam Neesons Bryan Mills has a very particular set of skills, mostly involving the ability to track down and then maim or kill anyone standing in his way.
But when it comes to protecting his loved ones in the first place, Bryansthe worst. The worst!
In the first Taken, it wasnt really Bryans fault when Albanian slave traders kidnapped his teenage daughter. But a few years later, the relatives of the Albanian slave traders kidnapped Bryan and his wife  at which point you gotta figure Bryans cousins, his priest and his favorite waitress at the local coffee shop were probably telling anyone who would listen, Im not really that close with Bryan. Ill bet he wouldnt even care if anyone kidnapped me!
Now comes Taken , and I guess this is a SPOILER ALERT eventhoughthe ubiquitous commercials give it away, but Bryans beloved ex-wife Lenore Famke Janssen doesnt even make it out of the first act alive. Bryan comesback to his placeafter getting bagels, finds a knife on the floor, picks up the knife and theres Lenore in his bed, with her throat slashed.
Seconds later, the cops rush in, and because they havent seen The Fugitive, they instantly figure Bryan is the culprit, and off we go on the first of at least a half-dozen foot andor car chases in this tired, gratuitously violent, ridiculous and laughably stupid entry in a franchise that started out with at least an intriguing idea and a few solid moments, stalled horribly in the sequel and now should be put out of its misery.
Ill tell you what got Taken. A hundred and twelve minutes of my life got Taken.
Working from a script by Luc Besson and Robert Mark Kamen that must have included page after page of THEN THERES A BIG CAR CHASE AND THINGS GO KABLOOEY, director Olivier Megaton shows almost no talent for pacing in the quieter scenes. Anumber of them go on for two or three beats past the logical time to cut to the nextscene.
Of course, other thanthe occasionalchuckle-inducing deadpan one-liner from Neeson, wedontexpect crisp dialogue in the Taken movies. Its all about the action. Megaton opts for dizzying camera moves and lots of quick-cut close-ups, rendering the freeway chases AND the hand-to-hand combat scenesnearly unwatchable.
After Lenore turns up dead and Bryan goes underground, a dopey cop shadows daughter Kim Maggie Grace as sheattends her mothers funeral, goes to college etc. By the way, Kim looks to be about   Maggie Grace is indeed   but maybe she took a few years off from school after that whole kidnapped-by-Albanian-slave-traders thing.
Of course, the dopey cop and his dopey cop friends have no chance against Bryan. They know hes exceedingly dangerous, but even after they arrest him because of course Bryan wants them to arrest him, they yuk it up and talk about how easy peasy it was.
Cut to another car chase.
Forest Whitaker adds some panache as the wise Inspector Frank Dotzler, the obligatory top cop who shows up at crime scenes and notices things that eluded everyone else. Frank is constantly playing with a rubber band AND he carries a chess piece the Knight! with him, so we know hes super smart and idiosyncratic to boot. Its a shame Neeson and Whitaker have precious few minutes of shared screen time.Id rather watch those guys sitting around between takes, telling war stories, than watch yet ANOTHER car chase.
Another thing about those car chases: Bryans all about proving his innocence and protecting his daughter, but he routinely endangers the lives of hundreds with his antics on the roads. Not everyone out there is a stunt driver, big fella.
Dougray Scott, normally a fine actor, gives a one-note performance as Lenores second husband, the slimy Stuart. Sam Spruell is a generic villain  a Russian crime boss named Oleg Malankov  who were told was in the Russian version of the Navy SEALs, but is incapable of shooting Bryan from  feet away, because of course Bryan can outrun bullets and he knows when to duck.
Also, remember when I mentioned Bryan going out for bagels? Pay attention to the bagels. Even if you dont pay attention to the bagels, this movie hammers home the importance of the bagels so often I wanted to stand up and say, We get it! We get what youre saying about the bagels!
But you wouldnt have been able to hear me over the next car chase or gunfight anyway.
