The thing about Ted is, hes a jerk.
Yes, its quite a thing  a talking, beer-swilling, pot-smoking, foul-mouthed teddy bear interacting with the humans of Boston, working as a cashier, even falling in love with and marrying a hot and trashy woman who is crazy about him even though he doesnt have a
Drivers license.
Its a testimony to Seth MacFarlanes wonderfully twisted imagination and to the special effects that we pretty much buy into the character of Ted as he engages in juvenile hijinks with his best friend John Mark Wahlberg, cracks wise about pop culture, spends much of his time chasing the perfect high and insults the majority of people he encounters.
Thats the problem. The first time Ted makes a joke about Amanda Seyfrieds character and her big eyes, its startling and hilarious. The second time, its just flat and unfunny.
The third time, Ted just comes across as cruel.
Of course, Ted has redeeming qualities, including his undying loyalty to John. Teds obviously a lot more human than teddy bear  which is the launching point for the overwrought, disappointingly preachy story line in Ted . In between the expected battery of gay jokes, poop jokes, sex jokes, drug jokes and more sex jokes, Ted  stops for speechifying about the close-minded being on the wrong side of history, and how the talking bear should be treated as an equal, just like gays and minorities and everyone else who was once treated like a second-class citizen.
I dont know about you, but I dont come to a Ted movie expecting to see Morgan Freeman delivering a courtroom soliloquy about the traits that define a human being.
So heres whats what. After Ted marries the gum-cracking, sexually voracious, good-hearted TamiLynn Jessica Barth, their marriage quickly goes sour. Within a year, hes sitting at the kitchen table in their crummy apartment, swilling beers, grumbling about Tami-Lynns spending habits and calling her a whore.
See what I mean about the jerk thing? The more time we spend Ted, the less we like him.
Ted and Tami-Lynn decide to adopt, thinking a child will save their marriage, and that leads to the inevitable sperm-donor scenes  one involving Tom Brady as Tom Brady, another featuring John covered in, um, unfortunate humor. The process leads to a series of red flags, resulting in Ted losing his job, seeing his marriage declared null and in a courtroom trying to prove hes not property. Hes a real boy. Man. Human.
Seyfried plays a young attorney named Samantha, who represents Ted in his case, shares Ted and Johns addiction to pot and becomes a possible love interest for John. When we pick up the action in Ted , John is divorced from Mila Kunis Lori. Which kind of puts a sour spin on the whole story from the original film. Seyfrieds a gamer, mostly playing the straight woman as Ted and John bicker and banter and slapstick it all over the place.
Director and co-writer MacFarlane is fearless, but jokes aimed at the Kardashians and Justin Bieber feel warmed-over at this point, and even some of the funnier set pieces one involving an improv troupe seem apart from the movie and utterly irrelevant. Even a celebrity cameo featuring a major star lampooning his recent film roles goes nowhere. And a climactic scene at Comic-Con feels like a wasted opportunity.
Wahlberg does have chemistry with Ted, which IS kind of amazing given Teds a combination of MacFarlanes voice and a stuffed animal and CGI magic. And every  minutes or so, I got a hearty so-wrong-its-right laugh out of a visual gag or a cringe-inducing bit of dialogue.
Mostly though, Ted  feels like far too many other sequels: born of box office expectations more than a bona fide reason to return to the characters we loved the first time around.
