One of these movies, a former government operative played by Liam Neeson is going to walk into a -hour diner and sit across the table from a former government operative played by Denzel Washington, quietly slide a folder across the table to him and say, I think were tracking the same guy.
In the meantime, while Neeson is taking A Walk Among the Tombstones, Washington shows up as The Equalizer, and its a coin toss as to which youd least like to meet in a dark alley. Either way, youre toast.
David Harbour plays a villain in Tombstones and Equalizer, but its two different characters in two different time periods. Nevertheless, good luck, David Harbour.
Washington reunites with his Training Day director Antoine Fuqua for The Equalizer, based on the s series of the same name. This is a ridiculous, audacious, violent and did I mention ridiculous thriller, with Washington displaying superhero-level prowess when it comes to taking down a roomful of snarling, tattooed, heavily armed bad guys half his age. One minute theyre snickering and sneering at the old man, the next theyre scattered about the room like the remnants of a fireworks show.
Fuqua and screenwriter Richard Wenk set the table quite nicely, thank you, with simple scenes of Washingtons Robert McCall going through his daily and nightly ritual. Late middle-aged, his head shaven, Robert works at a mega-store in Boston, where his younger co-workers speculate on what he did before he did this. I was a Pip, says Robert, as in a backup singer for Gladys Knight. They almost buy it.
At night, unable to sleep, Robert haunts a diner where he sips tea and reads books such as The Old Man and the Sea. This being a movie diner, theres a pie-loving teen prostitute named Teri Chloe Grace Moretz who hangs out at the diner as well, and eventually she and Robert becomes friends.
Seeking to win Teris freedom, Robert casually strolls into the headquarters of her Russian pimp.
Lets just say things dont go well. And it goes down in a manner that would have Tarantino applauding.
Denzel Washington's 'Equalizer' role a mystery even to him
A Russian oligarch sends his top fixer, Teddy Marton Csokas, in a chillingly wonderful performance worthy of a Bond villain, to find out what the hell is happening in Boston.
Robert keeps his job at the warehouse and continues his mild obsessive-compulsive behavior the exact same ritual every morning, a certain way of arranging tableware and napkins, but once hes returned to his Equalizer ways, he fully embraces it. Hes almost like the Batman of Boston  taking down corrupt cops, tracking down the punks who robbed the store where he works, and systematically dispatching the hit men and the henchmen who try to take him out.
The extreme violence is punctuated by some much-needed humor, as when Robert confronts Teddy in a posh restaurant and they have a restrained conversation that might as well have subtitles saying, Im going to kill you! No, Im going to kill YOU! or when Robert mentors his overweight co-worker Ralphie Johnny Skourtis, who has dreams of becoming a security guard if only he can pass the physical fitness exam.
Were deep into the film before we learn the particulars of Roberts past, but we can pretty much guess his deal after the first time he springs into action. Hes like an AARP version of Jason Bourne, only instead of trying to remember, he wishes he could forget.
Denzel Washington is of course a world-class movie star, and he brings all the gifts that make him great to the table, even when hes smack-dab in the middle of an extended shootout scene so stylized it would have to be toned down for a graphic novel. The Equalizer features some gruesomely creative violence, but its equally memorable for the small, gritty moments set in that diner, or on the rough-and-tumble streets of Boston. And most of all, its got Denzel going for it.
