So stupid.
For any hackercyber-terrorist to be so intimidated and threatened by something as ridiculously over-the-top and cartoonishly goofy as The Interview is just plain stupid. And speaks volumes about their insecurity.
For the biggest theater chains in North America to back away from the showing the film: stupid.
For Sony Pictures to announce itwouldnt be showing the film ANYWHERE was beyond stupid.
Even Sonys decision to reverse itself was kind of sketchy: a relatively minor rollout in a few hundred theaters across the country, coinciding with an online release six bucks to rent,  to own  on Christmas Eve, when folks are a little preoccupied.
Rarely have so many intelligent people made so many bad decisions about such a stupid movie.
Turns out The Interview is basically Harold and Kumar Go to North Korea, with an endless parade of scatological humor and homosexual double-entendre jokes, a smattering of political commentary, and have I mentioned its just really stupid and at times laugh-out-loud funny?
Co-directors Even Goldberg and Seth Rogen who also wrote the screenplay, along with Dan Sterling announce their intentions for the comedy to be silly and broad from the start, with a musical number featuring a sweet little North Korean girl singing an anthem about hating Americans. with lyrics such as:
May they be helpless, poor and sad and cold!
They are arrogant and fat!
They are stupid and they are evil.
Die America die!
And off we go.
James Franco, in a performance that skirts the border of obnoxiousness and sometimes crosses over, hams it up big-time as Dave Skylark, a narcissistic empty suit who hosts a successful info-tainment program. Rogen is Daves producer and best friend, Aaron, who yearns to do more serious journalism but also gets really pumped when Dave scores a big coup, e.g., Eminem saying, Ive been pretty much leaving a breadcrumb trail of gayness with his lyrics.
Eminem just said he was gay FOUR TIMES on our show! bellows Aaron.
Eminems coming-out party is the first of maybe a dozen gay-themed moments in The Interview. Dave and Aaron act more like a bickering couple than best buds, with Dave constantly pleading with Aaron not to leave him' Dave reaching out and caressing Aaron at every opportunity'and Dave even kissing Aaron on the mouth. Not that theyre gay. Both have multiple heterosexual liaisons along the way.
Chances are you know the main plot. Dave and Aaron score an exclusive interview with Kim Jong Un, whos a big fan of their show. Thats not much of a stretch from real life, considering Kim Jong Uns bizarre friendship with basketballerdupe Dennis Rodman.
The CIA, led by the comely Agent Lacey Lizzy Caplan, recruits Dave and Aaron to take out the despicable Kim. It takes about six attempts for her to get them to understand the CIA doesnt want them to take the Supreme Leader of the Democratic Peoples Republic of North Korea to dinner  they want the boys to assassinate the guy.
Were nearly halfway through the film  and things were starting to drag a bit  before we meet Kim Jong Un, and Randall Park provides instant energy and some major chuckles with a terrific comedic performance. No doubt its no more authentic a representation of Kim Jong Un than Will Ferrells George W. Bush or Jay Pharoahs Barack Obama or Chevy Chases Gerald Ford, but thats kind of the point with satire, right? The difference is we can make fun of our leaders without fear of being stuck in a concentration camp.
Parks Kim Jong Un is a starstruck buffoon who swoons in Daves presence and eagerly tries to win his approval by taking Dave for a ride in his tank, playing hoops with Dave and providing Dave with booze and topless companions.
Kims also clearly nuts, as he cheerfully acknowledges to Dave. Oh, and hes a softy who loves puppies and asks Dave if its gay to like Katy Perry and margaritas.
If liking Katy Perry and margaritas is gay, then who wants to be straight? says Dave.
Not me! comes the reply.
The Interview sticks to the anything-for-a-laugh plan for nearly the entire journey, with far too many jokes about things going in and coming out of rear ends' goofy sex scenes involving Aaron and Kims beautiful minister of propaganda a game Diana Bang' and some Tarantino-esque explosions of violence, with fingers being bitten off and heads being blown off in comically grotesque fashion. Its real hit-and-miss stuff in more ways than one.
Some hard truths about life in North Korea  the , citizens in concentration camps, the millions of people going hungry, the propaganda machine that tries to turn Kim into some sort of God  are detailed, so yeah, this film isnt playing in North Korea. But The Interview is much more an R-rated, st-century version of an old HopeCrosby road movie than a modern-day Dr. Strangelove.
Its mostly stupid is what it is. And someday  like in February   were all going to look back on this madness and wonder what all the fuss was about.
