This is a stalker movie populated by characters who have never seen a stalker movie in their lives.
For a while The Boy Next Door is entertaining garbage, the kind of laughably bad, poorly acted, elbow-your-seatmate, slickly produced dreck we often see in theaters this time of year. Dont get me wrong: There was a never a moment when I was going to urge you to spend actual currency on this film, but for the first  minutes or so, I was getting plenty of chuckles and even a chortle or two out of the thing.
But as the predictable plot reached its predictable conclusion, the movie took an ugly turn, with some nasty violence and a final confrontation that dragged on so long I started rooting for everyone  the good, the evil and the in-between  to just die already.
Jennifer Lopez, still lovely at  and still an OK actress, stars as Claire Peterson, who teaches the classics at the local high school and lives with her -year-son Kevin Ian Nelson, a sweet kid with serious allergy problems. 
The syringe Kevin carries around in case of emergency is about the same size as the one John Travolta used to pierce Uma Thurmans heart in Pulp Fiction.
Claires husband Garrett John Corbett in a bland performance has moved out after Claire discovered Garrett was cheating with a corporate secretary who smells like chocolate chip cookies, as Garrett put it in an email. Hey, the angel played by John Travolta in Michael smelled like cookies! Lets see if we can find another excuse for a John Travolta reference before we finish the review.
The next-door neighbor is about  years old and hes in need of someone to look after him because hes getting a bone marrow transplant. So the neighbors -year-old great-nephew, Noah, who recently lost both parents, moves in.
Hes the boy next door! Only hes played by Ryan Guzman, whos  and looks it. So its more like The Young Horny Man Next Door. Guzman also looks like he should be on the cover of a fashion catalog, and he acts as well as someone who should concentrate on modeling for fashion catalogs.
Noah flexes his muscles in a white T-shirt, fixes Claires garage door, befriends young Kevin  and when he finds out Claire teaches the classics, he waxes poetic about The Iliad.
Oh and he charms his way into Claires class. You see, even though Noah is , he lost some time what with the parents dying, so he needs to finish his senior year in high school. Apparently Noah has never heard of the GED or night classes. 
A vulnerable Claire begins to succumb to Noahs charms, and one rainy night when Kevins away camping with his annoying dad, Claire and Noah hook up. The next morning, Claire is horrified by her actions, but Noah thinks theyre a couple  and when she tells him they cant see each other again, Noah does not react well.
Working from a clich-riddled, by-the-numbers script from Barbara Curry a former assistant U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, director Rob Cohen The Fast and the Furious, XXX, one of those awful Mummy movies goes through the paces in workmanlike fashion. 
SPOILER ALERT!
These are just some of stalker movie clichs that pop up:

Obsessed dude with a secret shrine filled with photos of his target? Check.
Characters who keep on walking into a house even though the power has been cut and they know the bad guy could be inside? Oh yes.
False scares when you think the villain is around the corner but it turns out to be a friend, or a cat? Yup.
A guy gets shot in the movie shoulder? Absolutely. Its amazing how many best friends, partners and likable secondary characters get shot in the movie shoulder, as opposed to, you know, the face or the heart. The moment theyre shot in the movie shoulder, you know were going to get the obligatory scene where theyre loaded onto the stretcher so they can be treated for that non-fatal wound to the movie shoulder.
When skateboarding bullies taunt Kevin in a hardware store, hmmm, ya think Noah might eventually exact some revenge on the punks? But when Noah fractures the skull of the lead punk in front of half the school and knocks down the female vice-principal, hes just expelled. Nobody calls the cops? Hes twenty. How about charging him with attempted second-degree manslaughter?
Even with a running time of  minutes, The Boy Next Door feels bloated, especially during that aforementioned climactic confrontation. There are more knockdowns and false endings than in one of the later Rocky movies. When are people going to learn that when you knock the villain down with a wrench or a lamp or a rock, you dont turn your back on the villain? You pound him on the head  more times!
Everyone in The Boy Next Door has to behave like an idiot at least once or twice, just so the movie can keep going. Its an act of mercy when it finally grinds to a halt.
The vice-principal is played by Kristin Chenoweth, who co-starred with Idina Menzel in Wicked. Remember when John Travolta called Menzel Adele Dazeem? That was awesome.
