The problem with The Bronze isnt that Melissa Rauchs Hope Ann Gregory is such a nasty, foul-mouthed, terrible little human being.
Its that shes not as funny as the film thinks she is. Its as if Bad Santa and Bad Teacher had a kid  and she inherited all the meanness but only a slice of the humor.
This is one of those comedies that could have been a brilliant short film on Funny or Die or Saturday Night Live, but wears out its welcome as a feature-length film.
Rauch, best known for The Big Bang Theory a show that apparently will never go off the air, co-wrote the screenplay for The Bronze with her husband Winston Rauch and plays Hope Ann Greggory, who at the  Summer Olympics suffered a terrible ankle injury  but bravely stuck it out and won the bronze medal, thus becoming Americas Hope. Shades of Kerri Strug, the similarly high-voiced real-life gymnast who injured her ankle at the  Games but gamely performed one last vault, sealing gold for the Americans and becoming an instant phenomenon.
Cut to present-day Amherst, Ohio. Hope still lives at home with her sad-sack widower postman father Stan Gary Cole. Her bedroom is filled with trophies and other memorabilia from her glory days. She pleasures herself to the video of her triumphant moment at the Olympics, she steals cash from birthday cards in her fathers mail truck, she wears her red-white-and-blue tracksuit everywhere she goes, and she spends her days milking the last drops of her local celebrity getting free sandwiches, abusing the locals, hooking up with random guys and insulting anyone whodoesnt immediately recognize her as the worldwide celebrity she believes herself to be.
Basically shes delusional AND horrible. What a treat!
When Hopes former coach dies, she leaves her entire , fortune to Hope, with the stipulation Hope must coach Maggie Haley Lu Richardson, a -year-old local prodigy and Olympic hopeful. Kicking and screaming and swearing  always, always swearing  Hope reluctantly accepts the assignment.
Maggie is a perpetually upbeat innocent who worships Hope. Cecily Strong, who plays Maggies single mom, is all of  years older than the actress playing her daughter. Shes sweet but shes kind of an idiot, and she has no idea Hope isnt really interested in mentoring her.
Hope sets out to sabotage Maggie in the hopes Maggie will quit and Hope can cash the big paycheck. She tries to fatten up Maggie, she sets Maggie up with a guy so Maggie will lose focus, and she schemes and schemes to derail Maggies dreams. In the meantime, Hope berates her poor father day in and day out, in scenes more cringe-inducing than witty.
Thomas Middleditch tries hard but is profoundly unfunny as Ben, the gym owner Hope refers to as Twitchy, because, well, he has a twitch. Sebastian Stan doesnt fare much better as Lance Tucker, an impossibly smug and awful Olympics gold medal winner who had an affair with Hope back in the day.
At times The Bronze shows flashes of inspiration, e.g., a wild hotel-room encounter between two medal-winning gymnasts. Mostly, though, were asked to invest in a movie about a dimwitted, thoroughly unlikable, egocentric, lying brat who isnt much more endearing at the end of the journey than she was at the outset.
