Brutal.
Tommy Lee Jones The Homesman is a stark and beautiful and bleak portrait of life in the Midwest in the s. The Nebraska territory is so unforgiving, conditions so harsh, you wonder why anyone chose to live there.
This is more of a Midwestern than a pure Western, and it contains not an ounce of romance about the time period. Theres no majestic score, no choreographed gunfight, no scene where the hero walks into a saloon in the middle of the day and its filled with gamblers, roustabouts and women of ill repute. The Homesman is a film about women who go mad after having to bury their children, ranchers barely eking out a living and bargains that are struck in the name of survival.
Hilary Swank, as good as shes ever been and were talking about a two-time Academy Award winner, is Mary Bee Cuddy, who lives alone on a small patch of land, doing the back-breaking work herself while comporting herself as a lady. After a hard day plowing the fields, Mary Bee washes up and tidies up her home, meticulously placing a vase of flowers just so on the table. Mary Bees in search of a husband, but as a neighboring farmer bluntly tells her after shes cooked him dinner, sung a tune for him and proposed marriage, shes far too bossy and plain.
So much for chivalry.
Three women in Mary Bees tiny community have gone insane. Ill leave the horrific circumstances of each to be discovered by the viewer. The Reverend Dowd a perfectly cast John Lithgow has arranged for the women to be cared for by the wife of a minister in Iowa  but he needs someone to escort these dangerous, mute and stark raving mad women on a six-week journey across the plains and the Missouri River. Its quite likely a suicide mission, and none of the men in town are up for it  but Mary Bee, a woman of great faith, accepts the assignment and believes the Lord will guide her, and these poor lost souls will find some measure of peace at the end of the journey.
This is Tommy Lee Jones second feature film as a director. The first was the excellent The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada in . The first passages in The Homesman include flashback sequences showing us how those three women played by Grace Gummer, Mirando Otto and Sonja Richter lost their minds. Its almost like a horror film. When Jones first appears onscreen as a lowlife squatter who calls himself George Briggs it appears to be a name hes made up on the spot, theres an almost slapstick tone to scenes in which hes nearly blown up and then left perched on his horse with a noose around his neck.
It defies credulity that the pragmatic Mary Bee would enlist this jokers help, but the crusty, craggy-faced George, while lacking a moral compass, has clearly faced the elements over many a decade. Mary Bee knows she and the women will almost certainly die if they try to make this treacherous journey on their own. With George along for the ride  he agrees to the task after Mary Bee promises shell withdraw  from a bank in Iowa once the journey is completed  they have half a chance.
 Jones the director goes back to harsh realism for the middle section of the film, in which Mary Bee and George are nearly constantly at odds with one another while battling the elements, trying to keep the women from running away or doing harm to themselves and fending off unfriendly strangers they encounter along the way. The trip is marked by some huge surprises and a few small moments of warmth and humor sprinkled in here and there.
Every once in a while a familiar face pops up for a scene or two: Meryl Streep, Hailee Steinfeld, Tim Blake Nelson, James Spader. All are terrific, but Spader is particularly memorable, creating a character  a hotel operator  who in just a few quick scenes leaves us wanting to see an entire movie about him.
Jones, as one would expect, is brilliant playing the kind of cuss hes played many times before. Swank creates a character who is sweet and kind and deeply religious and strong, but more than a little sad and sometimes appearing to be on the verge of succumbing to the same madness that has afflicted the women shes caring for.
The Homesman is not an easy, comfortable viewing experience. Thats part of what makes it unique.
