Craps.
If your first roll of the dice comes up a two, a three or a , thats craps, and there goes your money  and then youre given the choice to roll the dice again or pass them to the next shooter.
The House is the comedy equivalent of a craps shooter who rolls a two, and then a three, and then a , and then a two again, and then ANOTHER two  but instead of quitting while hes behind, he just keeps on rolling the dice until theres nothing left.
Despite the pairing of the eminently likable and talented Will Ferrell and Amy Poehler as the leads, and about a dozen recognizable and usually funny supporting players, The House is a fetid, cheap-looking, depressing and occasionally even mean-spirited disaster.
I wouldnt be surprised if an expert in Morse code discovers Ferrell and Poehler were blinking SAVE US! at some point during filming.
This is a broad farce in which virtually every single grown adult is an idiot. If all the ish characters in this movie were actually -year-olds in a bad body-switching movie, they STILL wouldnt behave in such juvenile, self-centered, utterly ridiculous fashion.
Poehler is Kate Johansen and Ferrell is her husband Scott. They live with their teenage daughter Alex Ryan Simpkins in a lovely home in the comfortable, sleepy town of Fox Meadow, where everybody seems to know everyone else, and there appears to be exactly one police officer in town: the friendly but bumbling Officer Chandler Rob Huebel.
Each year the town of Fox Meadow awards a full college scholarship to a deserving resident, and this year Alex is the winner  but a sneaky and corrupt councilman named Bob Nick Kroll says the town would be better served by spending the funds on an elaborate swimming pool, leaving nothing in the till for Alex.
This throws Kate and Scott for a loop. Apparently it never occurred to them to put away a dime for their daughters education. They meet with their financial advisor, go over the paperwork and Scott triumphantly says, We have ,!
No, says the advisor. You have a k.
OK, so they DO have some money  but no, the movie tells us theyre broke and they have no way of paying for Alexs college education.
Ah, but as luck would have it, their dear friend Frank Jason Mantzoukas, who was recently dumped by his wife because of his gambling addiction, has a plan, and please dont ask me how he arrives at this plan: The three of them will open an illegal, secret casino in Franks house, and over the course of the summer theyll make enough money for the Johansens to fund Alexs education and Frank to win back his wife.
A half-million ought to do it! Now all they have to do is invite their friends and neighbors, who dutifully show up night after night and risk hundreds and even thousands of dollars at blackjack, poker, craps, roulette, you name it.
Even though were told Frank and Kate and Scott are broke, they somehow come up with the funds to build a full working casino in Franks house' hire dealers and bartenders and spa workers, and stock cash reserves to pay out the winners. And nobody in Fox Meadows sees anything, hears anything or says anything about it.
Believe it or not, circumstances grow ever more implausible and cartoonish from that point forward. Theres more character development and more believable plot turns in a typical Saturday Night Live sketch.
Director and co-writer Andrew Jay Cohen indulges in some nasty pieces of physical comedy, including but not limited to:
 Two instances in which Ferrells Scott shoves a friend of his daughters and sends her flying.
 Scott and Kate turning into mobster-wannabes inspired by Scorseses Casino.
 A severed finger.
 A severed hand.
 Two trash-talking female neighbors squaring off in a Fight Club type encounter, exchanging vicious and bloody blows while their friends who have bet on the fight egg them on. The fight ends when they knock each other unconscious  utterly oblivious to their surroundings.
I envied both of them.
