How did Nicolas Cage avoid this one?
The Last Witch Hunter does not work as campy escapism or as a guilty pleasure or as one of those movies so unintentionally funny you have to admit you were entertained from the hokey prelude through a finale that is such an obvious grab for a sequel one of the characters might as well have said, I feel like theres another chapter in this story!
Its just deadly and dreadful, loud and obnoxious, convoluted and irritating, horrible and dumb.
Vin Diesel lumbers and mumbles his way through a performance so bad it makes his work on the Fast and Furious franchise look like vintage Tom Hanks by comparison.
Get this. Diesel plays Kaulder, a charisma-free lunk of a th century soldier for the Catholic Church who wears an extremely complicated hairdo and getup that makes him look like a cross between an extra in the latest Mad Max film and a bass player for a heavy metal band.
Were told the Black Death plague of the mid-s was the work of the Witch Queen Julie Engelbrecht, an unseemly lass whos all maggots and snakes and skeletal ickiness. And of course she howls and threatens in that echo-heavy metallic death voice popular with so many witches and ghosts and villainous apparitions.
In the first of many CGI-overloaded battles in which its sometimes difficult to discern whats even happening, Kaulder seemingly takes down the Witch Queen  but she reaches out and curses him to immortality, so hell have to walk the Earth for ages, always mourning the loss of his wife and daughter, who will appear to him in a number of dream sequences and flashbacks, because heroes in movies such as this often have a wife and a child who appear to them in dreams and flashbacks.
Cut to present day. Our man Kaulder now patrols the world as, well, the Last Witch Hunter  but over the years hes come to understand not all witches are bad, and hes become more of a kindly cop and parole officer than an executioner. Some of his encounters with witches are reminiscent of how Tommy Lee Jones dealt with aliens in the first Men in Black.
Michael Caine picks up a paycheck as a priest who is known as Dolan th. The Dolan's role is to be the loyal and unquestioning manservant to the Witch Hunter  with the occasional lecture to our hero about how even though he's  years old, he's missing out on the best part of life, i.e., sharing it with someone. He's kind of like Alfred the Butler Hey! Michael Caine! with a collar  only they have to pick a new Dolan every half-century cause Kaulder doesnt age.
As long as witches dont abuse their powers to harm humans, theyre left alone. If they break the law, theyre arrested. At one point Kaulder notes the most notorious witchly villains are in one place  and Dolan th somberly replies that place would beThe Witch Prison.
Fantastic.
Elijah Wood pops up as Dolan th, an annoying little pipsqueak who reminded me of the useless and far too peppy Burt WardRobin, as long as were referencing Batman.
Rose Leslie, last seen saying, You know nothing, Jon Snow! on Game of Thrones, is the fetching Chloe, a witch who operates a trendy bar and strikes up an alliance of sorts with Kaulder, so they can look into each others eyes and consider what must surely be a Forbidden Romance between Witch and Human. Id like to see Mike Huckabee tackle that issue at the next Republican debate.
Olafur Darri Olafsson plays the evil Belial, whos supposed to be the most ruthless and dangerous witch in the entire world, but comes across as a second-tier bad guy from an old episode of Sons of Anarchy, only with some superpowers.
The screenplay by a trio of writers is muddled and goofy and riddled with clichs. Director Breck Eisner spends so much time on flashbacks and dream sequences and fantasy spectacles, were never much invested in present day. At no time do modern-day New Yorkers seem to even be aware of the 'Ghostbuster'-level epic battles taking place in their city. We get a few long-distance, poorly CGI'd views of Manhattan swirling in smoke, but that's about it.
Its as if all the civilian citizens have gone on vacation, the better to avoid this movie.
