One of the earliest scenes in The Wedding Ringer undercuts the movie by demonstrating the flimsiness of the premise  and yes, even a farcical slapstick comedy should spring from somethingsemi-believable.
Its a jam-packed, rooftop wedding reception, where hundreds of well-dressed, good-looking revelers are celebrating to the sounds of I Gotta Feeling by the Black Eyed Peas. It looks like one of those liquor commercials where everyone is having a better time than youll ever have.
When the music stops, the best man Kevin Hart delivers a funny, touching, beautiful speech that moves the bride, the groom, most of the wedding party and the best man himself to tears. What a moment!
Cut to the kitchen, where the groom is handing the best man a check for ,. You see Harts Jimmy Callahan is a professional best man for a hire  a wedding ringer for guys who dont have any friends and are in desperate need of someone to play the role for a week or so leading up to the wedding, and of course at the ceremony and the reception.
OK but wait. We just had a wedding party where a young guy who looks like a male model and his beautiful bride hosted about  people. And yet the groom needed to hire a stranger to be his best man? He doesnt have any brothers, his new bride doesnt have any brothers, he wasnt close to anyone in school, he doesnt have any buddies at work? So all those people at the reception were from her side of the family?
Also, Jimmys rules are he disappears once the wedding is over. Whats the story then? Does the groom tell his wife his best man was killed? If so, wouldnt they go to the funeral?
Also, in this age of social media, even if you invent some hes overseas story about the best man whom no one has ever met prior to the wedding, wouldnt people question why he doesnt have a Twitter account or a Facebook page?
The cookie crumbles at every turn.
Even if you can put aside the insanely ridiculous premise of The Wedding Ringer  and obviously I couldnt  its possible someone could make a movie with enough smart and funny set pieces, enough creative diversions, enough witty dialogue, to make this movie worth your time. If not at the theaters, maybe when youre on a flight in a few months.
This is not that movie.
Despite the considerable charisma of Kevin Hart and Josh Gad and a strong supporting cast, The Wedding Ringer has only one or two genuinely inspired bits of comedy, a few dopey moments when you laugh in spite of yourself  and long, long stretches of pointless montages, loud and unfunny physical shtick and far too much reliance on gay humor, the use of a certain word to describe the female genitalia and an old and disgusting urban legend involving peanut butter and a hungry dog.
Gads Doug Harris is a sweet and successful international tax attorney who surprises himself by landing Gretchen Kaley Cuoco-Sweeting, who seems way of out of his league. Until she actually opens her mouth and is instantly established as the kind of self-involved, calculating girlfriendfiancwife we see in countless buddy movies.
Doug asks former college roommates and childhood friends to be his best man. Most barely remember him. One thought he was dead. Some just hang up.
The wedding planner takes Doug aside and puts him in touch with Harts Jimmy Callahan, the CEO and apparently the only gun for hire at Best Man Inc., which will provide you with a best man and a back story for the right price. Doug needs the near-mythical Golden Tuxedo package, which includes a full set of groomsmen, each with a story about how he became friends with Doug.
Uh-huh.
Director and co-writer Jeremy Garelick strives mightily to stretch this into a full-length movie, killing time with a long montage in which Hart and Gad dance a choreographed number to a variety of musical styles' another long montage where the men stage photos to make it look like they ran marathons, went skydiving, etc., etc.' a long montage of a brutal football game featuring Doug and his friends against his lumbering bully of a future father-in-law Ken Howard, and yet another long montage of Dougs bachelor party, ending with a wild chase in which multiple felonies are committed.
Every once in a while, the crude circus stops spinning long enough for Doug andor Jimmy to have an epiphany about their respective lives. When no one else is around and they can drop the con for a moment, these two characters and these two actors are pretty great together. I was sort of hoping a producer or agent would show up, break the fourth wall and say, Kevin. Josh. When youre done making this half-assed piece of slop, Ive got a great project for you to do together.
Even a mediocre project would be a step up from this.
