When speaking of the three movies about a woman named Eleanor Rigby and why she disappeared, its difficult to avoid the chestnut about how there are three sides to every story: yours, theirs and the truth.
So I wont.
In the The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby, three films tell the same story. The first movie to hit theaters was titled Them, which was actually a combination of the two films now being released: Her, which is about a romance and breakup told from the point of view of the woman,, and Him, which takes us through the same timeline from the mans perspective.
Thats a lot of screen time devoted to a muted, sometimes melancholy character study about good-looking people often wallowing in misery, but no matter which way the viewpoint is facing, this is a beautifully scripted, well-photographed and sometimes achingly poignant effort, with a brilliant ensemble cast and a remarkable lead performance by Jessica Chastain, arguably the most photogenic and certainly one of the most talented actresses of her generation.
In Her, the focus is on Chastains Elle her fathers surname is Rigby, and her parents met while hanging out in New York City, chasing down a rumor of a Beatles reunion concert, who experiences the worst loss imaginable, jumps off a bridge, survives and moves back home with her artsy, intellectual parents.
Isabelle Huppert is Elles French-born mother, who always has a glass of wine in her hand and is still lamenting her truncated career as a classical musician. William Hurt is her father, a professor and therapist who encourages Elle to return to school, maybe finish her dissertation. Just when were ready to write dad off as a pretentious twit, he delivers a monologue about nearly losing Elle to the ocean when she was just two years old. Its a reminder of Hurts world-class acting chops.
The many appearances of Jessica Chastain
Review ofThe Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby: Them'
Jessica Chastain, Jess Weixler like sisters in 'Rigby' and real life
Writer-director Ned Benson, who conceived this project some  years ago when he was involved with Chastain theyve since broken up, is smart enough to let his camera linger on her face, giving even the simplest scenes a touch of elegance. Elle is deeply troubled, mired in grief and sometimes casually dismissive of the feelings of everyone around her, including her estranged husband Conor James McAvoy, an earnest restaurateur who still doesnt quite understand why Elle left him.
Even though The Disappearance of Eleanor Rigby is about a couple, Chastain and McAvoy dont have many scenes together in any version of the film. And when they ARE together, even the flashback scenes have a slightly different tone, whether its in the dialogue, the TONE of the dialogue or even the cinematographers palette. Him and Her have two very distinctive visual styles.
In Him, we see far less of Elles family and we spend a lot more time with Conors core group, which includes his father Spencer Ciaran Hinds, a womanizing restaurant owner who left Conors mother years ago and is now alone after his most recent wife left HIM. Like Elles mother, Spencers father freely acknowledges he was never cut out for the whole parenting thing. Most of the father-son talks are Dad telling his kid to stop being such a sentimental sop, which is fairly insane, given the depth of Conors troubles over the last year.
We spend a little bit too much time in Conors failing restaurant pub, where his best friend Stuart Bill Hader is the cook and a bartender named Alexis has a crush on him. Elles inner circle including her younger sister, whos a single mother, and a wise and world-weary professor played by Viola Davis is just more interesting and three-dimensional than Conors pop and the gang at the bar.
What makes Him so interesting is were now seeing a second take on scenes we already now. When Conor talks about their babys features in Her, he says the infant was all you. In Him, theres a major difference in a key line of dialogue. Which is the truth? Is it somewhere in between?
Her ends a certain way, giving us reason to believe a certain something is going to happen. Him ends with the same scene, but yet its not the same scene, and Ill just leave it at that. 
Of course this isnt the first time weve seen a story from multiple viewpoints. Rashomon is the most famous example. In the early s, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton starred in the two-part Divorce Hers and Divorce Him. The entire Netflix season of Arrested Development was all about telling the same story from multiple points of view. Even All in the Family had an episode where Archie, Mike and Edith had wildly different recollections of an incident when a repairman and his black apprentice came over to fix the refrigerator.
By the time I experienced certain scenes in Him, scenes Id already seen in Them and Her, yes, there were times when the urge to fast-forward was undeniable tough to do in a movie theater. But for the most part, thanks in great part to Bensons rich screenplay and Chastains nomination-worthy work, I was immersed in this story no matter who was telling the tale.
'HER'
