A full two decades after Four Weddings and a Funeral, Hugh Grant still does that stammering, understated, witty and dashing thing as well as anyone in the business.
Watching Grant nimbly step through the paces in the charming, smart and funny romantic comedy The Rewrite is like revisiting your favorite restaurant from the s and learning theyre still doing comfort food the right way. Its dj vu in the best sense of the word.
With touches of Sullivans Travels and just about every fish-out-of-water movie ever, The Rewrite is hardly shattering new ground, but the familiar path is strewn with a steady stream of smile-inducing moments, two terrific performances from the leads and a first-rate supporting cast.
Grant plays Keith Michaels, an Oscar-winning screenwriter who hasnt had a hit in more than a decade and is in desperate need of work. Keiths wife left him for the director of the film that won Keith the Oscar, he hasnt talked to his son in more than a year, and every time Keith pitches a screenplay, studio execs tell him they want an edgy action picture with a kick-ass female  not exactly Keiths forte.
RELATED: Hugh Grant takes a break from privacy crusade for 'The Rewrite'
Keiths agent the raspy-voiced Caroline Aaron, born to play a gruff but loyal agent is able to drum up some work for Keith  not on a film, but teaching at Binghamton University in upstate New York, where it always seems to be raining and the town is filled with colorful supporting character types just waiting for a leading man to come to town so they can have their moments to shine.
Before Keith even teaches his first class, he proves himself to be a royal jerk who has no respect for teaching and would rather be anywhere than here. He embarks on an ill-advised affair with a student named Karen Bella Heathcote, who specializes in sleeping with faculty members and student advisers' offends the department chair Allison Janney, whos also the head of the ethics committee, and allows only attractive females and geeky-looking males to gain entry to his class. What a guy.
If not for Grants likable performance even during most of Keiths most unlikable moments and a screenplay by Marc Lawrence who also directed that almost never lets Keith get away with his transgressions, wed be watching a movie about an a'' who doesnt deserve our sympathy. But of course Keith will undergo many a positive change and experience a major revelation or two along the way, because this is a sweet confection of a movie and not a documentary about a Hollywood has-been who becomes a teacher and offends everyone in his wake.
Marisa Tomei is her usual winning self as Holly, a single mother and perpetual student who becomes friends with Keith and calls him on his B.S., which of course makes her all the more interesting to Keith. J.K. Simmons who was Janneys Juno spouse is the dean of the university, and Simmons casually robs every scene hes in. His Dean Lerner is a no-nonsense administrator, but hell tear up within  seconds when talking about his wife and four daughters. Theres a moment when Keith shows up at the deans door, and the dean tells Keith the movie hes watching with the family, and Simmons line reading is just gold.
This is writer-director Marc Lawrences fourth collaboration with Grant, after Two Weeks Notice, Music and Lyrics and Did You Hear About the Morgans? Like the Keith Michaels character, Lawrence had a big hit some  years in the past although nobody would mistake Miss Congeniality for Oscar bait. Little doubt many of Lawrences own experiences contributed to The Rewrite.
The end result is arguably the best screenplay Lawrence has ever written, and one of the better vehicles in recent memory for Hugh Grant to pilot.
