The poster and some of the ads and trailers for The Good Lie might lead one to believe this is the Blind Side of the Sudan  another Hollywood movie where the story of the Noble Caucasian Who Gets Involved overshadows the journey of the survivors who overcome nearly insurmountable odds.
So not the case. This movie is better than that.
Perhaps it took Ms. Witherspoons marquee value and her face on the poster to get this movie made, and if thats the case, good for her and good for us. While The Good Lie certainly doesnt shy away from scenes designed to make us shake our heads at mans inhumanity to man and scenes designed to make us dab at our eyes, its the kind of movie that earns those moments.
A dark-haired Witherspoon gives one of the better performances of her career in The Good Lie, but its a decidedly supporting role. The real stars are Arnold Oceng as Mamere, Ger Duany as Jeremiah and Emmanuel Jal as Paul, three brothers who as boys survived a massacre in their village in Sudan, walked nearly , miles to a refugee camp and lived there for  years before winning the lottery in the spring of  and gaining entrance to the United States  specifically Kansas City. Nothing against Kansas City, a fine town with an upstanding populace, but you have never seen people more excited to find out theyre going to be living in Kansas City.
Using South African locations, director Philippe Falardeau devotes the first act of the movie entirely to the story of the small band of children who survive that attack on their village. By the time Mamere, Jeremiah and Paul arrive in Kansas City, wearing their brand new donated sweatshirts and carrying their meager belongings in plastic bags, we know all too well what theyve been through. So when we get the obligatory scenes of the young men marveling at escalators and telephones, praising God for pizza and McDonalds and showering thanks upon anyone who does them the smallest favor, theyre not caricatures. If anything, the grocery store owner who explodes at Jeremiah for handing out expired food to a homeless woman and the stoners who resent Paul for being so fast on the assembly line  theyre the ones that look clueless.
Witherspoon plays Carrie Davis, the employment agent for the brothers. Once she finds them jobs, her work is done, but they keep popping back into her life, whether Mamere is bringing her oranges or Paul is having difficulties adjusting to this strange new world. They give her a name of great honor that translates to Great White Cow, and thats right about the time when The Good Lie comes close to losing its edge and becoming another sentimental fish-out-of-water tale  but the screenplay is too textured, the performances too good, the conflicts too authentic for that to happen.
With a PG- rating, The Good Lie keeps the on-camera violence to a minimum, but it doesnt sugarcoat the experiences of these so-called Lost Boys of Sudan. At one point they make their way across a river that is filling up with the bodies of refugees who have just been slaughtered. Children die. Families are separated. We hear a story about a lion eating a child before bringing the bones of the child back to its den so its family can consume the remains of the boy.
Witherspoons Carrie is one of those sassy screw-ups who drives a beat-up pickup, sleeps with the local Waffle House manager and lives in an apartment thats a couple of carry-out meals away from an episode of Hoarders, but she never overdoes it, and its a believable character arc when she finally allows herself to care about the brothers. Duany, Jal and Oceng are never caricatures. Each brings a unique screen presence to the table. The scene where the three brothers laugh uproariously over the oldest joke in the book is one of the most joyful moments in any movie of . Also excellent: Kuoth Wiel, who plays their sister Abital, who has been relocated to a family in Boston.
At one point in The Good Lie, an American whos supposed to know about the brothers flippantly wonders if theyre from Kenya or Senegal or wherever. Ah, Sudan, OK.
The Good Lie makes certain we know. Sudan.
