You killed your father  his wife  their child!  Tom Cruises Nick Morton, to Sofia Boutellas recently resurrected evil mummy princess.
They were different times.  The incredibly lame explanation from the recently resurrected evil mummy princess.
nbsp'
After all these decades, we still have Mummy issues.
The  edition of The Mummy starring Boris Karloff was an early horror classic, and there have been some reasonably entertaining semi-camp film takes on the Mummy story over the years, but come on: Youre going to tell me you dug the Brendan Fraser reboots, or the prequel starring Dwayne The Rock Johnson?
Lets be real. The Mummy, whatever form he or she might have taken, has never been as cool or as complex or as chilling as Dracula or the Wolf Man or Frankensteins creations.
That said, given the A-list cast and the fact this is the first installment in Universals ambitious and far-reaching Dark Universe film series, its astonishing The Mummy is so wall-to-wall awful, so cheesy, so ridiculous, so convoluted, so uninvolving and so, so stupid.
This movie keeps inviting you to not like it. It does everything in its power to turn you away.
Russell Crowe is an Academy Award winner. Tom Cruise has had arguably the longest run in movie history as a successful action star. These guys know what theyre doing.
Yet when these two big-screen champions face off in an epic battle deep into this movie, the sequence is so poorly edited, the acting is so bad and the purpose of the scene is so insanely muddled, it feels as if Crowe and Cruise are doing it as some kind of cinematic community service sentence.
Surely they must have known they were sinking in a quagmire of crap.
After the obligatory overwrought prelude in ancient times where we learn the backstory of Boutellas power-hungry Ahmanet and what led to her being mummified, we cut to present-day Iraq, where soldier of fortune Nick Morton Cruise and his faithful comedic sidekick Chris Jake Johnson stumble upon ruins buried deep in the desert.
Annabelle Wallis is the archaeologist Jenny Halsey, who expresses her regret about a tryst with Nick even as she takes command of the site and oversees the air transfer of the ancient sarcophagi and other relics to London.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?w'h?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?w'h?w" class"wp-image- size-full" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?w'h" alt"" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comscreen-shot----at----am.png?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Annabelle Wallis and Tom Cruise in 'The Mummy.'  Universal Pictures
Many weird and grotesque and inexplicable things happen on that journey. In fact, some of the events that transpire are so bizarre we spend the rest of the movie searching in vain for one character that isnt seriously ghastly andor creepy.
Im going to issue a SPOILER ALERT here about Crowes character, even though hes listed as Dr. Henry Jekyll on IMDB. Suffice to say once the story returns to London, Dr. Jekyll has some very specific and idiotic plans for the re-animated and shackled Ahmanet, who has plans of her own for Nick, who literally cant get Ahmanet out of his mind.
With each succeeding scene, The Mummy gets dumber and dumber, to the point where the filmmakers are practically inviting you to walk out of the theater.
Its a zombie movie. Then its not.
Its a possession movie. Then its not.
Its a story of greed and corruption. Then its not.
Its a big-time action movie, with terribly constructed CGI sequences of Nick and Jenny racing through the streets of London, just ahead of mass carnage. Then its not.
This movie has no heart. This movie has no soul.
The only thing worse about this film as a stand-alone story is the attempt to launch a franchise.
Sometimes it takes a monster to bring down a monster, were told.
And sometimes it takes a disaster of this magnitude to leave us hoping a studio will take a long hard look at the universe theyre about to expand.
