If A Beautiful Mind met with My Left Foot and produced a perfectly ordinary biopicromance, that would be The Theory of Everything.
This is a well-made, well-acted but unexceptional film about one of the most exceptional figures of the last half-century.
In the opening segment, the young Stephen Hawking Eddie Redmayne and his best mate are bicycling recklessly through Cambridge, laughing the laugh of the unbridled. If the scene isnt clichd enough, the chip-chip-cheerio music hammers it home. You see? The great Stephen Hawking wasnt always a bent figure in a wheelchair, communicating through a speech-generating device.
Its the mid-s. Eddie Redmaynes Stephen is a brilliant physics student who infuriates his classmates by studying for only about an hour a day and yet easily outshining them. His head almost always bowed, his oversized glasses slightly crooked, a mop of hair covering his forehead, Stephen looks like an academic Beatle or Rolling Stone  and at a party one night, all he has to do is gaze across the room, and he catches the fancy of the fetching Jane Felicity Jones, luminous with her slight overbite and her blazing, blue-green eyes.
Directed by James Marsh and adapted by Anthony McCarten from Jane Hawkings memoir, The Theory of Everything embarks on a familiar path  well, two familiar paths.
Theres the story of Stephens romance with Jane: his awkward but tender initial gestures of affection, the moment their hands first touch, a lovely dance under spectacular fireworks, home-movie style footage of their wedding.
But even as Stephen was dazzling his professors with his revolutionary ideas about black holes and the nature of time, he was beginning to experience the first symptoms of a motor neuron disease related to ALS, or Lou Gehrigs Disease. Difficulties gripping a pen, struggles to maintain his balance.
One day Stephen collapses head first on the pavement. After a series of tests, a doctor delivers the news: Stephen will lose nearly all ability to control his movements  everything from the ability to walk to his speech to simply swallowing. He will be dead within two years.
What about my brain? asks Stephen.
Your mind will continue to function, replies the doctor. But eventually no one will know what youre thinking.
Redmayne is amazing. He captures Hawkings physical deterioration one excruciating increment at a time. As Stephen delivered groundbreaking work on singularity theorem concepts and quantum mechanics, he went from crutches to a wheelchair, from speaking in a slurred voice to using alphabet boards and later computer technology to communicate.
Related: Eddie Redmayne's challenge in channeling Stephen Hawking
We get perfunctory scenes of Stephen struggling to eat a single bite of food while his vibrant wife and his friends laugh it up and down champagne' Stephen literally crawling up the stairs and collapsing in frustration' Stephens eyes welling up as his wife holds his face and tells him she still loves him.
Every once in a while, The Theory of Everything takes a small stab at creating a visual to reflect Hawkings thought process, e.g., Stephen gets lost in the swirling pattern of cream in his coffee, or his head gets caught in a sweater and he looks through the fabric at the fireplace, and apparently reaches some sort of epiphany.
We see evidence of Hawkings achievements  his worldwide celebrity, an audience with the queen, bookstores showcasing his latest bestseller  but The Theory of Everything is primarily about the relationship between Stephen and Jane, which is irrefutably a love story, but like the marriage showcased in A Beautiful Mind, hardly a neatly wrapped fairy tale. Youd think this might make for a more interesting film, but perhaps in no small part because the movie was made with the cooperation of Stephen and Jane the most controversial aspects are glossed over or left out.
Theres only the briefest moment when we see Janes frustration. Shes working on her own thesis at the kitchen table while Stephen and their children are having a grand old time in the living room  and she looks up, looks around and realizes nobody really cares about her work or her burden. Its a fine bit of acting from Jones, but it only hints at Janes world. When she married Stephen, everyone believed he had but a year or two to live. It turned into decades. It turned into something far more enormous than she could have envisioned.
The Theory of Everything does show us the demise of the Hawkings marriage, and their respective romances with other partners. But everything is painted in such civilized, sweet colors. From all that has been written and numerous documentaries, we know the relationship between Stephen and Jane was to say the least complicated, as was Stephens second marriage to one of his nurses. Even though Everything stretches past two hours, theres only the briefest allusion to turbulence in Stephens personal life, not to mention his often-controversial political stances. To be fair, theres quite a bit of talk about Hawkings belief, or lack thereof, in God.
I wouldnt be surprised if Redmayne receives an Oscar nomination. His transformation is remarkable. By the end of the film he is communicating almost solely through his eyes, and the touches of a smile. Its a memorable performance in a rather ordinary film.
