In the mid- and late s it became a thing to read David Foster Wallaces thousand-page, -pound masterwork 'Infinite Jest,' or at least carry it around and claim you were reading it.
The rave reviews and widespread popularity of the book turned the tall, bandana-wearing Wallace into a literary rock star, something he found equal parts fascinating and mortifying. Wallace was enamored with the popular culture he was addicted to television, actually and seriously addicted to binge-watching before binge-watching was a thing and with the inner workings of the media machinery  but he was also a quirky, sometimes socially awkward, troubled artist who battled depression for decades and took his own life in  at the age of .
Wallaces life and work could be the subject of a towering, serious biopic, and maybe thatll happen someday, but in the meantime we have the refreshingly original, whip-smart and consistently funny The End of the Tour. Its a brilliant slice of life, concentrating on a key period in Wallaces career.
Whether you still treasure your dog-eared copy of 'Infinite Jest' or youve never heard of David Foster Wallace, director James Ponsoldts cerebral road movie stands alone as a celebration of Wallaces unique gifts and singular personality  and the dance of wits between a good writer and a great one.
RELATED: Jason Segel talks to Bill Zwecker about 'The End of the Tour'
Jesse Eisenberg has the Jesse Eisenberg role as David Lipsky, a twitchy, brainy, talented and self-absorbed writer who gets a plum assignment from Rolling Stone: Spend five days with Wallace Jason Segel as the celebrated author winds up a multi-city tour to promote his best-selling book.
Lipsky makes the trek to snow-drenched Bloomington-Normal, Illinois, where Wallace was teaching at Illinois State Michigan stood in for Illinois in the filming, arrives at Wallaces doorstep and is openly awestruck by the amiable giant who greets him and invites him to stay in a spare bedroom. For most of the next five days, Lipsky keeps his tape recorder running as he accompanies Wallace on a PR trip to Minneapolis' goes on something of a double date with Wallace' engages in rapid-fire banter with Wallace about all manner of subjects' and gently and then not-so-gently prods Wallace to talk about some dark chapters in his past.
Wallace never quite drops his guard  hes too self-aware and too schooled in the very journalistic tricks Lipsky attempts  but hes not immune to Lipskys obsequious interest. He begins to regard Lipsky as a new friend and even says This is nice as they spend another day together. He also tells Lipsky, But its not real.
What a performance from Segel. We see glimpses of Wallaces troubled side, from an intense and unwarranted outburst at Lipsky to a disturbing glimpse into Wallaces addiction to junk TV, but Wallace is also a funny, thoughtful, sweet man with a lovable canine sidekick. Hes not a bummer. Hes a guy who likes to dance.
Lipskys conversations with Wallace were chronicled in the excellent  memoir, 'Although of Course You End Up Becoming Yourself.' Donald Margulies screen adaptation is rich with terrific, pinpoint dialogue. Its nomination-worthy.
Even though we know David Foster Wallaces fate, The End of the Tour is so effective because its far too smart to engage in ominous foreshadowing. Its not a sugarcoated take on Wallaces life, but it IS great fun. Thanks in large part to Segels career-best work, this is one of the best movies of the year.
This was a time when most of us were reading actual, stand-alone books. When you were finished, youd put them on a shelf. A bookshelf.
