Had they ever occupied the same universe, Walter White might have met his match in Robert Mazur.
And Im thinking Bryan Cranston cant be overmatched by any role that comes his way.
How versatile and smooth and sublime is Cranston that we bought every inch of his performance as the high school chemistry teacher turned meth kingpin on Breaking Bad  and hes just as convincing as a federal government agent who burrows deep undercover and gains the trust of the highest echelons of the Medellin cartel in The Infiltrator.
Hes really good at playing bad, and a complete marvel at playing a good guy.
What with Cranstons groundbreaking work on the aforementioned television series, his stage and HBO portrayals of LBJ, his Oscar-nominated turn in Trumbo, nifty stuff in The Lincoln Lawyer and Godzilla and even Get a Job, and now his breathtakingly fine performance in this film, has any other actor produced such an impressive body of work over the last seven or eight years?
Based on the non-fiction book of the same name by U.S. Customs Special Agent Robert Mazur, The Infiltrator is a fictionalized telling of Operation C-Chase, a massive undercover effort in the mid-s that to this day is considered one of the most successful drug-busting operations in the history of the United States.
Cranstons Bob Mazur is a Florida-based veteran Customs agent with the classic undercover thriller conundrum, aka Donnie Brasco Syndrome.
At home, Bobs a solid family man with a lovely and devoted wife Juliet Aubrey, and two great kids Lara Decaro and Niall Hayes. Theyre corny and wonderful. Heck, they play board games at night.
But on the job, Bob is deep, deep, deep undercover as Bob Musella, a flashy, Mob-connected money launderer with an opulent lifestyle, a beautiful fiance Diane Krugers Kathy Ertz is actually a federal agent as well and enough clout to filter tens of millions of dollars in drug money.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?w" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?w'h" class"size-large wp-image-" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?w'h" alt"Bryan Cranston left stars as undercover U.S. Customs agent Robert Mazur and John Leguizamo portrays his partner Emir Abreu in quot'The Infiltrator.quot' Broad Green Pictures " width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidldrcroprgb.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Bryan Cranston left stars as undercover U.S. Customs agent Robert Mazur and John Leguizamo portrays his partner Emir Abreu in 'The Infiltrator.' Broad Green Pictures
John Leguizamo gives one of the finest performances of his career as undercover agent Emir Abreu, a colorful and unpredictable character who is paired up with Bob against Bobs better judgment. But its Emir who has the connections to the connections to the connections, and its Emir who has Bobs back when things get ugly.
At times The Infiltrator fills the screen with so many players on both sides of the law I could have used a scorecard to suss out everyones place on the pyramid. And there are moments when the intricacies of the money laundering process verge on the tedious.
Small matters. Director Brad Furman, working with a script written by his mother, thats right his mother, Ellen Brown Furman, is a gifted stylist who delivers consistently arresting visuals, accompanied by poprock tunes everything from Tom Sawyer by Rush to I Cant Wait by Nu Shooz to Eminence Front by the Who possibly inspired by the Martin Scorsese playbook. The Infiltrator is a great-looking, well-paced, wickedly funny and seriously tense thriller, bolstered by an ensemble cast as good as Ive seen in any film this year.
Joe Gilgun AMCs The Preacher, an amazing chameleon of an actor, is remarkable as Dominic, an apparent psychopath who Bob springs from prison to watch Bobs back. Dominics descriptions of what the Cartel will do to Bob and his family if they learn his true identity are beyond chilling.
Michael Pare  you got it, Eddie from Eddie and the Cruisers as a great five-minute cameo. Benjamin Bratt shines as Roberto Alcaino, one of Pablo Escobars most trusted distributors. Amy Ryan dons her patented no-nonsense persona as Bobs supervisor.
" data-medium-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?w'h" data-large-file"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?w" class"wp-image- size-medium" src"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?w'h" alt"Diane Kruger stars as undercover U.S. Customs agent Kathy Ertz and Bryan Cranston as her partner Robert Mazur in quot'The Infiltrator.quot' Broad Green Pictures" width"" height"" srcset"https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?wamp'h w, https:suntimesmedia.files.wordpress.comthe-infiltrator-tidayldrgb.jpg?wamp'h w" sizes"max-width: px vw, px" 
Diane Kruger stars as undercover U.S. Customs agent Kathy Ertz and Bryan Cranston as her partner Robert Mazur in 'The Infiltrator.' Broad Green Pictures
The hits just keep on coming  but front and center we have Cranston, sporting midnight-black hair and a ridiculous s mustache, but always commanding the screen, whether its in a quiet moment with his children, a shocking encounter that leaves him covered with blood, or a night on the town with his wife in which he has to segue from Bob the married guy to Bob the ruthless kingpin when one of Escobars associates happens upon them in a restaurant.
Like every other based on a true story movie, The Infiltrator engages in cinematic shorthand and manufactures events that never happened  but the vast majority of the main characters have real-life counterparts, and many of the scenes depicted in the film played out in real life.
Mazurs story and his book is so compelling it was almost inevitable wed see a movie one day  and the movie we got is one of the best of the year.
