Maybe you didnt even know it until the opportunity presented itself, but sometimes you just want to see Blake Lively face off for  rounds against the biggest, nastiest, most voracious and stalker-y shark this side of Bruce in Jaws.
Come on, were talking BLAKE VS. SHARK. Shes not Blake Lively' shes BLAKE DEADLY. That shark wont know what bit him! Dont be fooled by the bikini and the surfer-chick blonde hair, buddy boy.
They should have made a one-sheet resembling a classic boxing poster for this movie.
Im not going to tell you The Shallows isnt dumb, corny, hilariously over-the-top and cheese-upon-cheesy. Im not going to tell you it deserves to swim with the likes of Jaws and Open Water as a shark-infested thriller.
Nor can I mount any kind of defense for the final  minutes of this film, with a climactic scene so insanely ridiculous and beyond implausible I actually clapped, and I almost never clap at the movies.
What I will tell ya is this is an immensely entertaining millennial B-Movie, made for summertime viewing.
This is the kind of film in which our heroine befriends a wounded bird and names it  SPOILER ALERT 
Steven Seagull.
Thats so bad its great.
Director Jaume Collet-Serra who helmed the Liam Neeson thrillers Run All Night, Non-Stop and Unknown is so smitten with the lovely Ms. Lively, his camera practically bumps into her face during an early scene in which she takes a ride through Mexico in search of a secret beach. Its close-up after close-up after close-up, reminding us Lively is one of the most photogenic actresses of her time.
Livelys Nancy Adams hows that for a name out of a s detective series? is an adventurous but apparently ennui-imbued Texan who recently dropped out of medical school just before becoming a doctor, and has made a pilgrimage to a legendary beach that had special meaning for her mother, who recently died of cancer.
Lively is from Tarzana, California, and has California Surf Chick written all over her, and she doesnt even attempt a Texas accent. Why didnt they just have Nancy Adams hail from Cali? Ah, who cares. This is BLAKE VS. SHARK, people.
Were looking at a running time of fewer than  minutes, so as soon as we learn Nancys back story and we meet a few supporting characters who may or may not become shark snack fodder, Nancy is attacked by the aforementioned beast of the shallows, who digs into her thigh before she can make her way to a jagged rock formation just out of his reach.
Remember: Nancy Adams had almost completed med school before she dropped out to go on this spiritual journey. Her training comes in super-handy, particularly in a scene where she uses earrings and other jewelry to suture the leg. Cue the lingering close-ups of the self-surgery, specifically designed to make you groan and laugh nervously as Nancy talks herself through the procedure.
Filmed in New South Wales, Australia, The Shallows is a great-looking film, peppered with overhead long shots of the amazingly clear water, and some terrific underwater photography as well.
Lively is a real gamer in a physical role that calls for her to swim, surf, endure shark bites and jellyfish stings, and were just getting started. Even when shes suffering from dehydration, gaping wounds, early onset gangrene, hunger and thirst, she still looks better than most humans do after a -day vacation. Most of Livelys scenes are monologues, and while shes not about to make you forget about a young Meryl Streep, shes solid and convincing in the role.
As for the shark: As is the case with almost every movie shark, hes more frightening when we dont see him, or we catch fleeting glimpses of him. Director Collet-Serra has terrific thriller timing, to the point where we KNOW that dang shark is about to jump into frame, and yet its still an excellent scare moment when it does surface.
Even after chomping on a few victims and feasting on a whale it apparently killed, the shark has a real thing for Nancy. She devises a number of ingenious and risky plans to stretch out her survival time, but no matter what she does, she cant shake that shark. Eventually theyre going to face off, one-on-one, and thats when The Shallows flies right off the rails and youll find it difficult to suppress your laughter 
So dont! Put on your virtual TEAM BLAKE T-shirt and enjoy the ride.
