Just as Michael Keaton plays a famous actor who finds himself locked outside the theater in Birdman, Al Pacino plays a famous actor who finds himself locked outside the theater in The Humbling.
Its not the only similarity between the two films, but whereas Birdman is an electric journey filmed with great style and filled with sharp performances, The Humbling is a jumbled collection of scenes in which fantasy and reality intertwine in a manner I found more maddening than intriguing.
Sporting a wild hairdo that makes him look like an aging metal rocker who just put his finger in a light socket, the great Pacino goes full ham sandwich with his portrayal of Simon Axler, a legendary actor near the final act of his career. 
In the opening sequence, Simon recites Shakespeares all the worlds a stage monologue in his dressing room and takes the stage and then a nosedive into the orchestra pit. As hes being wheeled into the ER, Simon cries out in pain  and then asks the nurse if she believed his moan or if it was too over the top.
Ever the actor  even though Simon claims hes never taking the stage again.
At the urging of his longtime agent an underused Charles Grodin, Simon enters a rehab facility so he can heal physically and spiritually. He also does Skype therapy sessions with Dylan Bakers Dr. Farr, who is not physically close but is  well. You know.
In one of the many Wait, what?! moments in The Humbling, Simon meets a deeply troubled woman Nina Arianda at the rehab facility who tells a horrific story about her family and then pleads with Simon to kill her husband, because, you know, hes done that in the movies.
Once Simons back at his spacious house tucked away on acres of woodland, hes alone with his suicidal thoughts. Hes even got a shotgun handy, in case he wants to go out Hemingway style.
And then various characters start showing up at Simons door, most of them uninvited.
Greta Gerwig, a force of energy as an actress, is unfortunately miscast here as Pegeen, who I think is supposed to be some sort of magical temptress but comes across as borderline crazy and often irritating. Pegden is Simons goddaughter and she is a lesbian, but she seduces Simon anyway. Kyra Sedgwick is Pegeens ex, who begins stalking Simon with phone calls in which every single word sounds overwritten, and Billy Porter plays another ex of Pegeens, a transsexual who wants Pegeen back.
Simon seems out of it. At times his therapist questions whether these people visiting Simon are real, or figments of his imagination. On numerous occasions, a terrible thing happens  but then Simon awakes with a jolt, though its not clear if was sleeping or hallucinating. After two or three times of being yanked around like that, its hard to stay invested in the story when youre wondering if what youre watching is real or another fantasynightmare.
The Humbling is an adaptation of one of the lesser novels in recent years by the brilliant Philip Roth. The director is Barry Levinson, who from  to  had one of the best runs of any living director Diner, The Natural, Good Morning, Vietnam, Rain Man, Avalon, Wag the Dog. Levinson makes some odd choices here, even with something as simple as the ringtone on Simons phone. There are some moments of inspired black comedy, as when Simons friend from rehab shows up on his property and says, as theyre standing in the middle of the remote woods, that shed like to go someplace private and quiet so they can talk.
Pacino is all over the place playing a man who looks too exhausted to sit up straight, let alone move about. Madcap characters keep entering and exiting Simons life, yelling at him and kissing him and berating him and making strange requests of him, and he just grows ever more befuddled.
We know the feeling.
