Oh quit your whining.
Watching The Last Five Years is like sitting at a table at one of those restaurants where they think its a good idea to place you within  inches of another couple  and this particular couple next to you are attractive -somethings who think they invented love at first sight, career ups and downs, fighting, cheating, reconciling and breaking up.
Its exhausting.
The Last Five Years is based on a stage musical written by Jason Robert Brown, which premiered at Skokies Northlight Theatre in , moved to Off-Broadway and won Drama Desk awards, and has been staged numerous times in subsequent years.
In the stage version, a young woman tells her side of a five-year relationship beginning at the end, while the young man tells his side in chronological order. They meet only in the middle, at their wedding.
In Richard LaGraveneses adaptation, we start with Cathy Anna Kendrick lamenting the end of the marriage  but then we flash back to the early, giddy days of her relationship with Jamie Jeremy Jordan, and the two share the screen for most of the rest of the film as it hopscotches back and forth in time in unnecessarily confusing fashion.
Theres very little dialogue. Cathy and Jamie will recite a line or two, and then one or the other or both will burst into song. And while both have Broadway-level pipes, neither has a particularly distinctive, knock-it-out-of-the park voice. It doesnt help that the songs, while solid, become repetitive in melody. And theres not a home run in the bunch. I walked out humming  nothing from this movie.
The biggest problem with The Last Five Years is its pretty much an argument against couples getting married too young. Hardly compelling stuff. When Cathy and Jamie first find each other, he sings about the joys of finding a shiksa goddess after dodging a dozen Jewish girls. What a turn-on for Cathy to hear Jamie singing about how this is going to kill his mother, even as Jamie is tumbling into the bed with Cathy.
Jamies a would-be writer' Cathys a struggling actress. The wheels start to come off the relationship when Jamies first novel turns him into a superstar, while Cathy gets the heave-ho at one New York audition after another and finds herself doing summer stock in Ohio year after year.
In the fantasy world of The Last Five Years, being a successful young novelist means your publisher throws a huge party for you pretty much every weekend. Cathy whines about Jamie getting so much attention. Jamie tries to keep Cathys spirits up for a while but then explodes at her for throwing herself a pity party. It doesnt help Cathys case when she and Jamie take a drive to visit her parents in the suburbs, and she sings about how shes better than her high school friend who got knocked up and her former classmates who never made it to New York. In this particular number, Cathy seems to have forgotten she made it TO New York, but she hasnt made it IN New York.
Jordan has a puppy-dog earnestness and a dancers athleticism, but hes a playing a self-centered, self-serious egomaniac who cant stay faithful for more than a couple of songs. We know Kendrick can sing, but her voice sounds a little thin in some numbers, and the Cathy character doesnt have much depth beyond falling in lust with Jamie, complaining about the audition process, resenting Jamies success and singing about her superiority to her childhood friends and her fellow Ohio actors.
The Last Five Years moves along pretty quickly, and we get some beautiful shots of New York, and one terrific musical number on the streets in which the pedestrians become a part of the show.
Ultimately, though, I found myself growing tired of Jamie and Cathy, and understanding why they didnt want to be with eachother.
