Madness abounds in The Accountant, an intense, intricate, darkly amusing and action-infused thriller that doesnt always add up but who cares, its BIG FUN.
The next time Ben Affleck runs into his old Hunting mate Matt Damon, they could have a legitimate debate about Afflecks Christian Wolff vs. Damons Jason Bourne, covering at least three main points:
Id call it a toss-up on all three fronts.
Affleck, a genuine movie star who has never been the most expressive of actors, puts his deadpan, tightly controlled charisma to perfect use as Christian. Hes autistic but on the highly functioning side of the scale: a genius accountant with math skills out of A Beautiful Mind, capable of taking care of himself  but lacking most basic social graces, obsessed with completing tasks, dependent on heavy doses of medication and susceptible to seizures.
Christian hides in plain site as a CPA with the ZZZAccounting Firm in a strip mall in Plainfield, Illinois. Note to the filmmakers: Plainfield is about twice as far from Chicago as the  miles you mention in the title card. He drives a truck, lives in a simple home with a nice backyard, keeps to himself  and waits for calls from a British-accented woman, who gives him his next assignment un-cooking the books for the highest-level criminal organizations around the world.
Sometimes Christians work involves moving tens of millions of dollars around. Sometimes it involves taking out some seriously bad people.
Hes not just an accountant. Hes  THE ACCOUNTANT.
The invaluable J.K. Simmons is the obligatory Law Enforcement Veteran on the Verge of Retirement, in this case one Ray King the names in this movie!, the legendary head of the Treasury Departments Crime Enforcement Division.
For the better part of a decade, Ray has been trying to learn the true identity of The Accountant. He enlists the help of Agent Marybeth Medina an excellent Cynthia Addai-Robinson, essentially blackmailing her into finding The Accountant or face the consequences of her checkered past.
Working from a clever jigsaw puzzle of a script by Bill Dubuque, director Gavin OConnor jumps back and forth from the present day to Christians childhood, with Seth Lee playing young Christian. We learn how Christian was molded into the fighting machine hes become, and were also provided with repeated and obvious clues about the supposedly shocking twist that comes late in the story.
Anna Kendrick is smack dab in the middle of her acting comfort zone as Dana Cummings, a whip-smart accountant at a bio-medical robotics firm who notices a serious discrepancy in the books  which leads the head of the firm John Lithgow to bring in Christian to go through  years of insanely complicated ledgers to dig for possible malfeasance. Dana recognizes something of herself in the outsider Christian, and he develops a certain fondness for her, the closest thing to a human connection hes ever known. Dana tells a story about feeling like an outcast at Naperville North High School and wanting to buy an expensive Vera Wang gown so she could go to the prom and be noticed, just once.
Jon Bernthal is a wisecracking assassin named Braxton who seems destined to cross paths with Christian. Jeffrey Tambor is Tambor-great as a convicted accountant who mentors Christian in prison.
Wearing unfashionable spectacles and a Walk-Ins Welcome! haircut, avoiding eye contact and speaking without any kind of filter, Afflecks Christian is an oddball charmer who is funny because hes almost never trying to be funny.
Christian takes his payment in cash, gold and priceless works of art, all of it hidden away in a trailer in a storage facility. His hobbies include painting emoji faces on cantaloupes and then shattering those cantaloupes at long-distance range with an anti-aircraft assault weapon. Each night, he assaults his senses with pounding music, pulsating electric lights  and occasionally pounding a rolling pin against his shin.
Hes a Bat-bleep version of Batman.
The Accountant is at its best when Christian is outsmarting all the other smart people, taking down henchmen and interacting with Kendricks Dana. The big-picture plot is wobbly and at times flat-out nuts' all of a sudden were in The Usual Suspects territory, but few films can match the mastery of that beautifully spun tale.
But its immensely satisfying. Just about everyone gets what he or she deserves, in more ways than one.
