When a Bad Movie Happens to Good Actors, the results can be devastating.
For us, that is.
Actor-director John Krasinskis The Hollars is an uneven, ineffective and self-conscious dysfunctional family comedydrama with a Sundance-y vibe, and scene after scene in which the greatly talented and usually quite likable cast members keep stepping in big piles of wrong choices.
Let us count just some mildly spoiler-laden cringe-inducing examples:
 The normally sublime Richard Jenkins is all over the place with his performance as Don Hollar, a failing businessman and so-so father of two grown sons. Well get to those jokers in a moment. Don reacts to his wifes illness by bursting into tears seemingly every few minutes  but Jenkins so overplays it, were not sure if hes asking us to feel for him, or laugh at him, or what.
 Krasinski plays Dons son John Hollar hes John, son of Don!, a wannabe graphic artist who hates his cubicle-based job and cant fully commit to his wonderful, smart, attractive, loyal, supportive, loving, financially secure and oh by the way pregnant girlfriend Rebecca Anna Kendrick. Waaaah, my comic book characters arent good enough! Waaaah, I still think about my hot girlfriend from high school!
This guys self-pitying ennui would be off-putting enough if he were a -year-old millennial. But he appears to be about , well past the age where he should either BLANK or get off the BLANK, as my old uncles used to say.
 Sharlto Copley District  plays Johns older brother Ron hes Ron, brother of John, son of Don!, a jittery creep who was recently fired from his job  working at his own fathers company. Rons a coward who ran away from his wife and two young daughters because he wasnt ready for commitment  but now that shes dating Josh Grobans do-gooder Reverend Dan, he wants her back, so he has taken to stalking her and their children, albeit ineptly. Now THERES a fun-filled subplot.
 Speaking of creepos, The Hollars has another one for ya. Charlie Day Its Always Sunny in Philadelphia plays Jason, a nurse assigned to help care for the aforementioned Mrs. Hollar Margo Martindale, who has a large brain tumor. In addition to being a terrible nurse who doesnt seem to care a whit about his patients, Jasons an insecure, combative jerk, and he freaks out when John Hollar returns to the old home town due to Mrs. Hollars illness. You see, Jasons now married to Johns high school sweetheart Gwen Mary Elizabeth Winstead and they have a baby together  but Jasons a bad husband and apparently not much of a father either, and hes convinced John is going to try to steal Gwen from him. Laughs do not abound from this story thread either.
 The very funny Randall Park Fresh Off the Boat plays Dr. Fong, the brain surgeon who will operate on Mrs. Hollar. Park plays the character with all the plausibility of a portrayal of a doctor on a Saturday Night Live sketch.
Every once in a great while, The Hollars gives us a truthful dramatic moment, e.g., when Martindales Sally tells her son John something about her past even her husband doesnt know about, or when Kendricks Rebecca shows up at the Hollar household to support her boyfriend even though he doesnt deserve her.
Mostly, though, we get stuff like characters singing the Indigo Girls Closer to Fine, and a wacky baby-delivery scene, and shamelessly transparent attempts to put a lump in the viewers throat.
More like a twitch in the leg and an eye on the EXIT sign.
