With The Comedian arriving in theaters, its safe to say I now have only nine spaces left on my list of the  Worst Movies of .
Whats more painful than watching a comedian bomb onstage in a live performance? Watching one of the greatest actors of all time bomb playing a comedian who is shockingly unfunny onstage, and an offensive boor offstage.
Some  years after Robert De Niro delivered one of his most memorable and one of his most admirably unsettling performances as the deranged wannabe comedianlate-night host Rupert Pupkin in Martin Scorseses The King of Comedy, De Niro plays a bitter, misanthropic, thoroughly unlikable stand-up comic named Jackie Burke in The Comedian.
Pupkin was crazier. Burke is infinitely less interesting.
At times over the last  years, the great De Niro has clearly phoned in his performances. Not here. He pours himself into the role of Jackie, and every once in a while, a spark of brilliance flies off the screen, despite the flat material.
Mostly, though, I was embarrassed for De Niro and for the rest of the exceptionally talented supporting cast as they flounder about in one ill-conceived set piece after another, e.g., an excruciatingly unfunny sequence in which Jackie performs at a retirement home and transforms the lyrics of Making Whoopee into Making Poopie  because whats funnier than a song about the elderly having trouble with their bowel movements?
Oh, I know. EVERYTHING.
Directed by the good-to-excellent veteran Taylor Hackford An Officer and a Gentleman, Against All Odds, Ray, with a screenplay credited in part to Jeffrey Ross, arguably THE premiere takedownroast comedy writer-performer of our times, The Comedian pulls no punches when Jackie takes the stage and traffics in just about every taboo imaginable.
I have no issue with that, especially in these politically correct times. Problem is, the jokes just arent that funny  and De Niro doesnt help matters with his self-consciously mannered delivery. You can cut to laughing audience members, laughing celebrities, laughing comics in the audience, et al., all you want  but it doesnt make the material any funnier.
So heres the deal. De Niros Jackie Burke was the star of Eddies Home, a dreadful but popular sitcom from the s. Now in his late s, Jackie finds himself working the comedy club circuit and barely scraping by' verbally abusing his longtime and loyal manager Edie Falco' regularly borrowing money from his younger brother De Vito' and performing community service after serving time for attacking a heckler.
Leslie Mann is the best thing in this movie, playing an insecure and screwed-up but altogether charming woman named Harmony, who shares a court-ordered community service gig with Jackie and starts dating him because the script says they start dating. Theres absolutely nothing believable about the Jackie-Harmony romance, but Mann does a wonderful job of TRYING to make us believe it.
Harvey Keitel plays Harmonys gangster father, Mac. The first meeting between Mac and Jackie takes place at Sparks, the New York steakhouse where Gambino crime boss Paul Castellano and his underboss Thomas Bilotti were hit in .
So weve got Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro. Mean Streets. Taxi Driver. Cop Land. At Sparks.
And it goes nowhere.
Later, theres a golden opportunity for De Niro and Keitel to echo the scene in Taxi Driver when Keitels pimp tells De Niros Travis Bickle to, um, go away  and the opportunity is wasted. Come on!
Cameos by Billy Crystal, Charles Grodin, Hannibal Buress and other familiar faces do nothing to elevate the proceedings. Director Hackford goes for a Woody Allen vibe with the soundtrack and the establishing shots and the editing rhythms, but it feels like a pale imitation of something authentic.
Much like the comedy of Jackie Burke.
