 
 
 
ROADSIDE ATTRACTIONS
The dynamic among adult siblings is one rarely explored in mainstream films, especially with the tenderness, humor and utter believability of The Skeleton Twins, in which Saturday Night Live alums Kristen Wiig and Bill Hader reinforce their reputations as actors who can of course be hugely funny  and then switch gears to heavy drama.
Sometimes in the same scene.
What a joy it is to watch these two, whether theyre ripping open old wounds, engaged in fierce verbal warfare, fondly remembering childhood adventures or making each other laugh so hard they literally cant stand up.
Wiig is Maggie, a dental hygienist whos married to Luke Wilsons Lance, one of those constantly upbeat great guys who sometimes makes you want to bash your head against the wall, just because of the awesome footwear hes rocking or the way he delights in eating an ice cream sundae, as if hes  years old. Milos initial impression of Lance: hes basically a human version of a Labrador retriever.
Hader is Maggies estranged twin brother Milo, whos been on the West Coast for a decade, consistently failing in his attempt at becoming an actor. Maggie is contemplating a small mountain of pills when she gets the call: Milo has tried to kill himself by slitting his wrists.
And yes, this film is for the most part a comedy.
Depression runs in the family, and one can see why after a disastrous visit from the twins mother Joanna Gleason, spot on in her one extended scene. Shes one of those New Age B.S. artists who swoop into a room seemingly filled with positivity, always spouting the latest self-help, celebrate-life gobbledygook while furiously ignoring her miserable failure as a mother.
Even after a decade of not talking to one another, Maggie and Milo quickly fall into their old groove  sharing secrets, dressing up literally, in Milos case for Halloween, lip-syncing to Nothings Gonna Stop Us Now by Starship for reasons not explained. Lip-syncing andor group dance scenes in comedies are usually cringe-inducing and indicative of a script in need of stretching, but Wiig and Hader turn the scene into something funny and even touching.
Not that Milo and Maggie are easy to like. He can be a snarky, self-centered jerk, and shes not exactly the perfect wife. Both seem to be in need of deep therapy, as theyre clearly going through life in a near-permanent funk, wielding defense mechanisms at every turn. They bring out the very best, and the darkest worst, in one another.
Ty Burrell from Modern Family does nimble supporting work as Milos former high school English teacher, who seduced Milo when Milo was just . At first hes appalled when Milo crashes his life, but then it gets more complicated.
Director and co-writer Craig Johnson has an indie-friendly style that falls just on the right side of clever without coming across as too arch or condescending. We get a lot of deep waterdrowning metaphors, from Maggies scuba diving lessons to some flashback swimming scenes to the purchase of some goldfish, and then some more goldfish.
This is a smart movie about complicated people in search of something approaching inner peace. They know theyre screwed up' theyre just not sure how to go about fixing it. Wiig gives maybe the most impressive performance of her career, and Hader is equally good, especially when he delivers a monologue that puts a heartbreaking spin on the old chestnut about how the meathead jocks will peak in high school and the nerds they bully will grow up to rule the world. It is pure and true acting, as fine as just about anything Ive seen at the movies this year.
