Remember when Colin Farrell was pretty much THE leading young man in Hollywood, as white-hot a rising star as anyone walking the red carpet in the early s?
Fast forward to , and even though Farrell isnt yet , hes more Paul Giamatti than Brad Pitt in The Lobster, a mid-year contender for the most unusual and most disturbing movie of the year.
For about an hour, The Lobster is pure absurdist greatness, brimming with pitch-black shock humor and big, wild ideas. The second half of the film isnt nearly as imaginative and startling, but I walked out of the screening with the surefire knowledge I wouldnt soon shake off its most inspired sequences.
Farrell is an offbeat, deadpan delight as David, a soft-bodied, middle-aged sad sack with a bad mustache and two-for-the-price-of-one eyeglasses who is suddenly single after his wife has an affair and leaves him.
David must now move into The Hotel, where guests have  days to find a life partner, or theyll be transformed into the animal of their choice. Literally transformed.
And here I complain when theres a  p.m. check-in time and an  a.m. checkout time  and yet they call it a full days stay.
Whereas most guests choose to become a dog or a horse if they dont find love, David says hell become a lobster, and hes got some solid reasoning behind that choice: Lobsters live for decades, and they continue to grow, eat and reproduce until they die. AndDavids quite the swimmer and he loves the water, so theres that, too. What goes unsaid is untold thousands of lobsters are plucked from the waters far before their time, shipped to restaurants and dropped into tanks with other doomed lobsters, at which point humans single out which lobster theyd like to have executed so they can eat it.
David has a dog. The dog was once his brother. After failing to find true love after  days, Davids brother was turned into a dog. Davids dog.
Let the dystopian analyses and Kafka comparisons begin!
Some of the hotel guests find love, at which point theyre honored in a ceremony and then closely monitored for two weeks so the management can confirm its the real deal. Others conspire to fake a connection so they can be spared from being turned into a donkey or a swan or a bird.
Oh, and I should tell you about The Hunt. Every day, guests of The Hotel are armed with tranquilizer guns and they go into the forest to hunt down the Loners, a rogue group of radicals with their own bizarre set of rules  first and foremost a ban on even the slightest hint of romance. For every Loner a hotel guest bags, the guest is granted an extra days stay at The Hotel. One particularly skilled hotel guest has accumulated some  days of bonus time.
The eclectic cast includes John C. Reilly as Lisping Man, so named because, well, he has a lisp' Ben Whishaw as Limping Man, and youre already ahead of me about the origins of that name' Angelika Papoulia as Heartless Woman, perhaps the most frightening character in any movie of  to date' Lea Seydoux as the hardcore leader of the Loners' and Rachel Weisz as the Loner who becomes the most important person in the world to David.
The Lobster is the first English-language film from the Greek director Yorgos Lanthimos, whose best-known work is Dogtooth, which as far as I know is the only absurdist film to reference Jaws, Rocky IV and the Maniac dance sequence from Flashdance.
As a social satire, The Lobster is hit and miss. The prevailing commentary about a world in which youre literally turned into an animal if youre not part of couple seems a bit dated' the allegory might have been more pointed a generation ago. Lanthimos scores some points with his take on the supposedly freedom-loving Loners, who might have even more rules than the system against which theyre rebelling.
Farrell absolutely kills it as David. Weisz gives one of her best performances since her Oscar-winning turn in The Constant Gardener.
I cant overstate the weirdness of this movie. You might love it  or you might walk out after  minutes.
