Exiting the theater after the technically impressive but listless and tedious The BFG, I wondered:
Of the more than  films Steven Spielberg has directed, was this my least favorite?
No, I havent forgotten about The Adventures of Tintin or Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull or Hook or . But if I had to rank all of the Spielberg-directed films, from the myriad four-star classics through the terrific but slightly lesser movies down to the very small handful of misses, I think Id rather see every one of Spielbergs previous films before having to sit through The BFG again.
Its not awful. Im not sure Spielberg could deliver a thudding clunker if he tried. But its painfully cutesy, silly and gross rather than whimsical and funny  and it moves so slowly I got to the point where I found myself thinking BFD about the BFFs in The BFG.
Set in the Great Britain and Giant Country of the s, The BFG gets off to a promising start with a nifty late-night sequence in which the adorable and precocious orphan girl Sophie Ruby Barnhill, all plunk and spunk with little subtlety wanders around the cavernous and cold and forbidding orphanage deep into the witching hour  telling herself not to get out of bed, not to go to the window and not to throw open the curtains, which of course she does every night.
This leads to a sighting of one Big Friendly Giant voiced by Bridge of Spies Oscar winner Mark Rylance who has no choice but to scoop her up and take her to Giant Country, lest she spill the beans about his existence.
As is the case with all Spielberg fantasies, the special effects are terrific and the attention to detail in the sets is so vibrant and precise it almost distracts from the action in the foreground. Spielberg and his team have done a marvelous job of bringing Roald Dahls  illustrated childrens book to big-screen, D life. Heres no surprise: The D is underwhelming. The D is underwhelming in about  percent of D films.
One of the big problems with The BFG: Life in Giant Country isnt particularly exciting or interesting or even all that scary, even though its supposed to be at least scary. Its kind of a drag, truth to tell. Maybe that orphanage aint looking so bad after all, kid.
Turns out that even at  feet, the BFG is known as Runt by the nine other giants in his village such as it is, who appear to be about three times his size and about th as intelligent. Theyre all male giants, which could explain why these behemoths are so grumpy all the time.
Led by the grunting, drooling and disgusting Fleshlumpeater Jemaine Clement, the giants bully Runt with nasty fervor, and spend nearly every waking moment either hunting down human beings aka beans or roaring about how they love the taste of human beings. Theyre a grotesque, dim-witted bunch, and other than their leader, they have no distinctive personality traits. In this movie, a little Supporting Player Giant goes a long way.
Meanwhile, the BFG talks in a patience-stretching language known as Gobblefunk, in which commons words are rearranged in a manner that plays well on the written page but is more annoying than amusing on film. All the squibbling and ucky-mucky and whoopsey-splunkers and squiffling and delumptious talk will. Wear. You. Down.
Also, about the th time little Sophie wails, BFG! BFG! I was expecting him to say, WHAT! Cant you just sit and READ for a little while!
Nobody tops Spielberg when it comes to heart-tugging moments involving a child and an otherworldly creature, and the bond between Sophie and the BFG will indeed grab you from time to time.
Whats largely missing is the sense of wonder and adventure. The BFG works in the field of dreams, and were not talking Iowa cornfields. He catches dreams, he brews dreams  and deep into the night, he gently prowls the streets of London, using a trumpet of sorts to literally blow specific dreams into the sleep cycles of little boys and girls.
Its a cool concept, but the onscreen visualization of the dreams themselves, while competent, doesnt reach out and stun us on the level weve come to expect from Spielberg.
Even less satisfying is a stunningly unfunny and overlong sequence in which Sophie and the BFG visit the queen Penelope Wilton from Downton Abbey, who decides its a grand idea to invite the giant into Buckingham Palace and serve him the worlds largest breakfast  even though Sophie and the BFG have just told her about nine giants who are gobbling up the children of England.
Come on Queenie. Get it together. Stop feeding the friendly giant and go get the ones who are EATING THE CHILDREN.
