In the first act of the awkwardly titled but brilliantly executed Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, we think weve got a handle on the main characters and what theyre all about, including:
 Mildred Hayes Frances McDormand, a grieving divorced mother simmering with rage because the local police havent found a suspect or even unearthed a promising lead since her teenage daughter Angela Kathryn Newton was kidnapped, raped, set afire and murdered.
 Mildreds teenage son Robby Lucas Hedges, a smart and smartass kid mourning his sister  but also deeply embarrassed by his mothers increasingly bold and even violent antics.
 Police Chief Willoughby Woody Harrelson, who is gruff and foul-mouthed, but also clever and a good family man.
 Jason Dixon Sam Rockwell, an alcoholic, thick-witted, near sociopathic cop who lives with his mean old racist witch of a mother.
 Red Welby Caleb Landry Jones, the smirking, perpetually jumpy local advertising man, who gladly accepts Mildreds cash offer to paint a message on three billboards that are, well, just outside the town of Ebbing.
We think we know these people, because the writer-director Martin McDonagh architect of In Bruges, one of the best dark comedy capers youll ever see has done a masterful job with the script and with his visuals North Carolina stands in for Missouri, and because the cast turns in perhaps the best ensemble work of any movie this year.
And yet just when we believe we know these people and we have a pretty good notion of where the story is going, we are hit with surprises both small and enormous. The fates of multiple characters are not the fates we expected.
Following the path of Three Billboards is a little like driving down an unfamiliar road in beautiful but forbidding country late at night, and alternately marveling at the scenery and gripping the steering wheel tightly when yet another steep drop or sudden change of direction presents itself.
About those billboards. Painted in bold black letters against a blood-red background, the message reads:
HOW COME, CHIEF WILLOUGHBY?
Everybody in and around the town of Ebbing knows the billboards are referencing the horrific murder of a teenage girl some eight months ago, and even though Red Welby says he cant divulge the identity of the individual who paid for the billboards, everybody knows it had to be Mildred.
Willoughby is ticked off, Mildreds ex-husband John Hawkes is mortified and Dixon the cop is ready to take matters into his own hands. Meanwhile, Mildred goes on the local news and tells her story. The depiction of an ambitious, overly dramatic, semi-clueless, extremely local TV reporter is a brutal but spot-on takedown.
The mystery surrounding Angelas murder is always lurking on the edges of Three Billboards, but somehow McDonagh has taken the bleakest of subject matters and treated it seriously while also serving up one of the best dark comedies Ive ever seen. In scene after scene, McDonagh and that outstanding cast deliver small chuckles and hearty laughs that spring authentically from the situations at hand.
The middle-aged, slightly paunchy, hard-edged Willoughby is married to the beautiful Anne Abbie Cornish, who speaks with a trace of an Australian accent. They have two wonderful little girls. The Willoughby we see at home is a far cry from the Willoughby cracking heads as the police chief.
Then theres Mildreds ex-husband Charlie John Hawkes, now shacking up with -year-old Penelope Samara Weaving, hilarious in a small part, who says shes reading a book about polo or is it polio. Which one is about the horses, asks Penelope.
And in one of the most verbally vicious and one of the funniest rip jobs ever seen on film, Mildred politely listens to the local pastors suggestion she take the down the billboards and frequent Mass more often, and then proceeds to explain in cringe-inducing language why the good father can take his suggestions and, um, leave her house.
Harrelson and Rockwell are the standouts in the supporting cast, but this movie is McDormands to own, and of course we shouldnt be surprised that she carries the story with fierce, foul-mouthed, abrasive, ferociously loving heart. Mildred would be the first to admit shes not an easy person. Often were not convinced shes even a good person. Peter Dinklages James, a local car dealer with a crush on Mildred, finally tires of her needlessly rough treatment of him and lets HER have it  and she deserves everything he says.
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri provided some of the strongest laughs and some of the most poignant moments of heartbreak of any movie in recent memory. McDormand is sure to score an Oscar nomination for best actress, and the film is deserving of awards consideration in at least a half-dozen other categories as well, from McDonaghs script and direction to the work by Harrelson and Rockwell.
This is the best movie Ive seen this year.
