How did this happen?
How did a supporting character on a cult TV show that aired for three years in the s become a social media rock star, the inspiration for a Broadway musical, a Howard Stern semi-regular, an actor much in demand, a leading activist and Americas Gay Uncle, to quote Out magazine?
From the time George Takei was very young, his life has been the stuff of a movie, and in the documentary To Be Takei, even non-Trekkers and those who cant resist mimicking Takeis Oh my! catchphrase will understand exactly why the -year-old Takei has become a much bigger star than he was a half-century ago  a career arc nearly unheard of in the business of show.
Writer-director Jennifer M. Kroot is smart enough to know she has a glittering diamond of a subject in Mr. Takei, so for the most part she keeps things straightforward, allowing George and his longtime partner and now husband Brad Altman, who is also Georges manager, to take center stage. You could make an entertaining movie just by following George and Brad through their day, with George almost always sunny and revealing, and Brad often wincing at Georges openness.
Although this is primarily a lighthearted romp, showcasing Georges quarterly appearances as the announcer and raconteur supreme on Sterns show, his immensely entertaining feud with William Shatner, his interplay with Brad and the public appearances where he is showered with love by adoring fans of all ages, theres also a substantial amount of time devoted to the two prisons Takei inhabited.
In , when Takei was  years old, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt authorized Executive Order , which declared all people of Japanese ancestry be removed from their West Coast homes and placed in internment camps. George and his family were imprisoned in a camp in Oklahoma, and then moved to a camp in California, where they were held until the .
Seven decades later, Takei is a passionate, living survivor of that shameful chapter in American history, when tens of thousands of people were rounded up simply because they looked like the enemy. Takeis experiences are the inspiration for Allegiance, a musical that premiered at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego to sold-out crowds.
And as anyone even remotely familiar with Takeis story knows, the actor was well into his s before he finally came out of the closet, prompted to do so after then-governor of California Arnold Schwarzeneggers veto of same-sex marriage legislation. The only time in the film we see Takei coming close to losing his temper is when someone refers to the gay lifestyle or homosexuality as a choice.
Roles for Asian actors were sparse enough back in the day. Takei admits hes embarrassed by some of the stereotypical parts he played in the s and s. Its easy to understand why Takei didnt want to further narrow his opportunities by coming out of the closet during an era when even Liberace was pretending to be on a constant search for a wife. But since Takei came out, his career as an actor and as George Takei, spokesmanactivisthumoristsocial media personality, has exploded. To Be Takei is a celebration of a man of great resilience, infectious humor, a voracious appetite for the richness of the human experience, and the best laugh in the history of laughing.
He also tells the fantastically insufferable Shatner, F' you and the horse you rode in on, so theres that, too.
Email: rroepersuntimes.com
Twitter: richardroeper
