Todays college-American has never known a time when campus and school shootings havent been a tragically consistent element in the fabric of society.
It wasnt always that way. There was a time, some  years ago, when such a thing was unthinkable  until the moment it wasnt, and dozens of lives were forever impacted.
On a blistering hot August day in , a -year-old man took the elevator to the top of the University of Texas Tower and opened fire on students, faculty, passersby and eventually law enforcement officers.
Over a -minute period,  people were shot and  died in what is considered the first mass shooting in modern American history.
Keith Maitlands Tower is a stunningly powerful and gripping documentary, a triumphant blend of modern animation and editing techniques blending with traditional-style archival newsreel footage and talking-head interviews with some of the survivors of that horrific day.
The rotoscoped animation brings a surreal, almost dreamlike waking memory to the events of that day. Maitland makes the brilliant choice to use younger actors appropriate to the age of the participants at the time of the shootings to tell their stories via animated interviews, and then segues to present-day, live-action visits with some of the survivors, police officers, civilian gunmen and reporters nearly a half-century after the fact.
It is one of the most unforgettable pieces of work youll see this year, or any other year.
Most of Tower plays more like a animated dramatic feature film, as we relive the shootings through the eyes of the pregnant Claire Wilson Violett Beane, who is one of the first shooting victims and spends an hour and a half trying to lay motionless and play dead on the sizzling sidewalk with her dead boyfriend just a few feet away' officers Houston McCoy Blair Jackson and Ramiro Martinez Louie Arnette, who recount their efforts to take down the sniper' a -year-old named John Fox Seamus Bolivar-Ochoa, who takes it upon himself to try to rescue a wounded victim' Rita Starpattern Josephine McAdam, who in an incredible act of bravery ran out to the pregnant Claire and lay down next to her, engaging her in conversation to try to keep her awake and alive' and many others.
They are a remarkable group of people. You will be moved and inspired by their humility and their humanity as they tell their stories.
In the last  minutes or so, Tower becomes more of a traditional documentary, with emphasis on the survivors as they are today. The timing is perfect. We have met them through the animated re-enactments and the interviews with younger versions of themselves' now we see them in real life, older people who made it through a horrific  minutes to live many a decade.
an article in Rolling Stone, the director shot the re-enactments mostly in his own backyard in Austin using a -foot palm tree as a stand-in for the tower. After taking photos and matching film angles on the campus with his iPhone, Maitland handed over all the material to animation studio Minnow Mountain, which did the rotoscoping.
The result is a remarkable film that deserves an Academy Award nomination for best documentary. The result is a film you cant afford to miss.
