Fassbender in Tree with Puppy.
Sounds like one of those high-volume HashtagSnap-ChattyInstagrammedMemeTrendyYouTubeyFacebook things, yes? Who wouldnt want to see Michael Fassbender nestled in a tree cradling an adorable puppy?
Well it just so happens the character played by Fassbender in Trespass Against Us really does have a puppy-in-a-tree scene, but Im not going to tell you when and where and why it happens, because its worth the journey for you to get there on your own.
This is a strange, rambling, ambitious little hybrid of a movie  equal parts film-festival-friendly dysfunctional family comedydrama and offbeat crime thriller. Director Adam Smith shooting Alastair Siddons inventive script doesnt hit the mark with every chance he takes, but for the most part this is an admirable and successful effort.
Its as if Guy Ritchie took a stab at Little Miss Sunshine.
From the titular nod to the Lords Prayer, to a crime patriarchs convenient interpretation of the New Testament to rationalize his actions, to themes of family betrayal, Trespass Against Us is filled with biblical references, not all of them flattering to traditional Christianity.
But this is not a satire mocking faith. Its an energetic thriller peppered with chase sequences the likes of which you havent seen before  including an opening scene involving a rabbit, a dog and a little boy behind the wheel.
Live by Night, plays Colby Cutler, the amoral head of a multi-generational family of roving Irish criminals who pillage in the rural U.K., usually about a half-step ahead of the local authorities. In movies like this, the cops are often portrayed as clueless buffoons, but theres a little more going on here.
Colbys a force to be reckoned with  but hes also a brute and a fool who believes the Earth is flat and formal education is a waste of time for his clan.
Fassbender plays Colbys son Chad, a brilliant getaway driver who shares his fathers thirst for reckless thrills and anti-authority stunts. Chad finds himself indoctrinating his own children to the family business  but of course his wife Lyndsey Marshal wants Chad to break the chain of criminality, and Chad himself comes to realize hed like to create a better, more stable life for his family.
Let the complications ensue!
The most memorable moments in Trespass Against Us feature Gleeson and Fassbender, butting heads on a Shakespearean level.
Oh, and Fassbender and the puppy. That was pretty great too.
