Trumbo is a corny, well-made B-movie about an A-list screenwriter who had to take jobs writing B-movies after he was blacklisted, but eventually worked his way back to writing A-movies with Kirk Douglas a.k.a. Spartacus as his champion.
What a strange mess it was, and what a shameful slice of American history.
The great Bryan Cranston sinks his teeth into the title role and chews the scenery with such gusto I half-expected him to spit out a chunk of period-piece furniture before we were through. Theres a lot of ham and cheese in the performance, but its great fun to watch.
Dalton Trumbo was a larger-than-life character who was probably the most successful and famous of The Hollywood Ten, writers and directors with ties andor sympathies to the Communist Party who were cited for contempt of Congress in  for refusing to cooperate with the House Committee on Un-American Activities. They were given prison sentences, fined  and blacklisted from the industry.
Cranstons Trumbo would work well on Broadway. Sidebar: The Breaking Bad star recently won a Tony for his portrayal of LBJ and will be reprising the role for an HBO biopic. Forever clenching a cigarette holder and filling the air around him with smoke, pounding away at his typewriter and pounding down Scotch, cracking wise with his Hollywood friends and barking out roaring tantrums while ferociously fighting for his principles, Trumbo is a hurricane of a man.
Do you have to say everything as if its going to be chiseled into a rock? says Trumbos best friend Arlen Hird a composite character not based on any specific member of the Hollywood Ten, played in wonderful, low-key, sad-sack tones by Louis C.K. Later, Hird says hell go along with Trumbos plan to combat the witch hunt if only to get Trumbo to STOP TALKING.
RELATED: 'Trumbo' relates to what's happening today, Bryan Cranston says
In post-World War II Hollywood, Trumbo was living the dream. He was among the highest paid and most successful screenwriters in Hollywood. He lorded over a princely ranch named the Lazy T, and doted on his beautiful wife Cleo Diane Lane and two children. He palled around with the likes of Edward G. Robinson Michael Stuhlbarg, continuing a string of impressive roles in works from A Serious Man to Boardwalk Empire to Pawn Sacrifice to Jobs.
But the party is about to come to a crashing halt because of Trumbos membership in the Communist Party. As the screenplay notes, Trumbo is something of a limousine Communist, given that for all his support of the working man and all his talk about sharing the wealth, hes living a lot more like a king than a peasant.
After Trumbo tells the HUAC to stuff it, hes forced to serve jail time and banished from the industry. He has to sell the ranch, and the family moves into a modest home where the next-door neighbor glares at them with hatred and the backyard swimming pool is vandalized.
 birthday. Sometimes its hard to root for the hero when hes such a jerk.
Helen Mirren gets into the booming spirit of the film by playing the odious and all-powerful gossip columnist Hedda Hopper as Cruella de Vil with a typewriter and  million readers. Hopper keeps a close watch on Trumbo and his fellow blacklisted artists, and she begins to suspect correctly Trumbo is working his way back to prestige projects.
When Trumbos friend Ian McLellan Hunter Alan Tudyk wins the Academy Award for writing Roman Holiday, its a bittersweet moment for the Trumbo family. Dalton, the actual scriptwriter, is an Academy Award winner, but Hunters name is on the trophy. The Trumbos watch the Oscars from the couch.
At times Trumbo is like an extended Saturday Night Live skit. Stuhlbarg doesnt try to look or sound like Edward G. Robinson' he just asks us to believe in the performance, and we do. In smaller roles, however, fine actors such as David James Elliott as John Wayne, Dean OGorman as Kirk Douglas and Christian Berkel as Otto Preminger delve into distracting, sometimes unintentionally funny impersonations. OGorman in particular is a hoot. Its as if hes imitating Rich Little imitating Kirk Douglas.
The Hollywood Blacklist extended far beyond the original , damaging and in some cases destroying hundreds of careers. It was an ugly period in American entertainment history, with some in the business testifying to save their own careers, while others saw their lives ruined for holding certain political views in a country founded on the principle of individuals having the right to their own beliefs  and to express those beliefs.
Trumbo is a reminder of just how wrong the HUAC was, and just how brave Trumbo was to fight back, and just how great it was that SOME Hollywood stars, like Mr. Kirk Douglas, used their power to shine a light on injustice.
