You know Unbroken, based on the story of Louis Zamperini, a former Olympic track star who spent more than two years as a POW in World War II, is going to have one of those epilogues where we read about everyones life after the movie ended, complete with photos and videos of the real-life inspirations for the characters.
When that happened at the end of this film, I was left thinking: Why didnt Angelina Jolie make a movie about all THAT?
From the sweeping, majestic score to the melodramatic scenes that should almost be subtitled Nominations Please! to the actors who clearly went through the rigors to convincingly portray malnourished, abused prisoners of war, Unbroken is an ambitious, sometimes moving film that suffers from a little too much self-conscious nobility, and far too many scenes of sadistic brutality.
I say this in all sincerity: Not since The Passion of the Christ has a camera lingered so long on one man enduring beating after beating after beating.
After beating. This is one of the bloodiest PG- movies ever made.
Early on, Jolie along with her great director of photography, Roger Deakins gives us two thrilling and harrowing sequences in which Louis the talented Jack OConnell and his buddies engage with Japanese fighter pilots. As was the case with the tank in Fury, we get a real sense of the claustrophobic, controlled chaos within the B-. Its first-rate filmmaking.

Louis older brother Pete played by John DLeo as a child, Alex Russell as an adult spoons up nuggets of wisdom such as, If you can take it, you can make it. If you think the adult Louis will hark back to those words when things are at their bleakest, well. Yes.
When his patched-together B- fails on a rescue mission, Louis, Phil Domhnall Gleeson and Mac Finn Wittrock are stranded on two lifeboats in the endless Pacific Ocean, with little hope of rescue. As the meager supplies run out, the men take to fishing  even clobbering a shark at one point and feasting on its raw meat. This is how the Japanese eat their fish, says one of the boys as they dine on a bit of instant sushi.
Louis was on that raft for  days, and Jolie spends a LOT of time on this ordeal. But this is nothing compared to whats next: Louis is captured by the Japanese Navy and transported to a POW camp run by Cpl. Watanabe, aka The Bird Miyavi, a young man with deceptively angelic looks who lives for inflicting pain on the enemy.
The Bird is a monster. He tells Louis theyre friends, but hes obsessed with breaking down the Olympic hero. He punches, slaps and kicks Louis at all hours of the day and night. He whips Louis with a cane. He forces dozens of Louis fellow POWs to take turns punching Louis in the face. At times everyone in the camp stops what theyre doing to watch as the Bird tries to break Louis body and spirit, only for Louis to rise up again with Christ-like resolve.
Working from a script by the Coen brothers, Richard LaGravenese and William Nicholson adapting Laura Hillenbrands book, Jolie concentrates so much on Louis suffering at the hands of the Bird, Unbroken loses sight of the bigger picture. Some of the fascinating details of life at the prison camps detailed in Hillenbrands book are swept aside in favor of scene after scene of Louis being tortured and beaten. 
This is not to say Unbroken should have glossed over the unimaginable pain Louis endured. Were left in awe of his resolve. But so many scenes of Louis getting kicked around only serve to numb us.
OConnells performance is mostly about suffering for his art. Save for those flashbacks when Louis is a blaze of glory on the track, for most of the film hes emaciated, covered in blood, mud and grime, hunched over in pain. We dont get a real sense of who Louis really is, other than someone who wont give up. Late in the film theres a brief hint about the Birds past, but that doesnt give dimension to the character. Hes a one-note monster.
In a well-made but one-note film.
