A -year-old teacher in Chicagos inner city learns shes pregnant around the same time one of her students finds out SHES pregnant  and they forge an unusual and sometimes tumultuous bond as they set out on this life-altering and amazing and wonderful and sometimes terrifying journey together.
It sounds like the stuff of a treacly made-for-TV movie, but thanks to a couple of pure and true performances and some fine directing, Unexpected avoids the clich potholes for the most part and, um, delivers.
Director and co-writer Kris Swanberg filmed Unexpected in and around Lindblom Math and Science Academy in Englewood, and the result is a movie about a high school teacher and a high school student that feels authentic.
'The Results as Samantha, a popular science teacher who has earned the respect of her students and is clearly passionate about her job. Samantha isnt one of those cringe-inducing Beautiful White Female Teachers Rescuing the Poor Black Student characters' rather she reminds me of some of the teachers I know who have devoted their lives to the education of inner-city youth.
With the prospect of the school shutting down sound familiar? and staffers being told they should seek employment elsewhere, Samantha gets excited about going for a job at the Field Museum  but when she learns shes pregnant, her career considerations take a back seat because, after all, its not like her blandly supportive boyfriend Anders Holm is going to quit HIS job to stay at home with the baby, right?
Around this same time, one of Samanthas favorite students, the bright and promising Jasmine Gail Bean, finds out shes with child as well, and when Jasmine makes the decision to keep the baby while refusing to give up her dream of attending a good college, Samantha takes Jasmineunder her wing  sometimes its vice versa  as they navigate the exhilarating and nauseating and exciting and exhausting territory of carrying a child.
The men in Unexpected are OK guys who try to do the right thing one is more present than the other and often say or do stupid things. When theyre onscreen, we wish theyd wander away so we could get back to the sibling dynamic between Samantha and Jasmine. Yes, its a little weird for them to be hanging out  but why not? They need each other, even if theyre from different worlds, from their upbringing to their race to the age difference. When Samantha tells Jasmine most of her friends havent had children yet, a stunned Jasmine says, Why not? Youre OLD. To which Samantha responds: Im THIRTY.'Jasmine sits back, point taken.
Elizabeth McGovern who played a young Chicago area mother-to-be in John Hughes Shes Having a Baby in  is wonderful as Samanthas mother, who has that motherly way of striking just the right or should we say wrong nerve while genuinely caring for her daughters well-being. Smulders and McGovern are terrific together.
Mostly, though, Unexpected is about the friendship between Samantha and Jasmine, which takes some predictable turns but also winds up in a few unexpected places. Smulders gives one of the most natural performances of her career, and Beans subtle, strong work announces her as a young actress to watch.
