One can justifiably accuse Unlocked of being a convoluted and sometimes preposterous thriller, but at least were treated to a fine mishmash of clichd characters and spy-movie tropes that keep us amused long after weve given up on all the ridiculous twists and turns and double-crosses.
Example: our heroinethinks shes among friends, but thanks to a conveniently placed pair of mirrored sunglasses on the table in front of her, she catches the reflection of a gun-wielding assassin. Its a setup!
Then theres the scene, early in the film, when a visitor to an office picks up a small model of the Eiffel Tower and waves it around while affecting a terrible French accent.
Please put that down! says the occupant of the office, leaving no doubt in our minds something terribly important and importantly terrible once happened in Paris.
Hmmm, wonder if well get a flashback to that fateful incident?
We also get the time-honored exchange in which a seemingly friendly character makes one verbal slip-up in casual conversation, raising a big red flag. Instead of processing and quietly storing away that information, the protagonist immediately calls him out on his lie, creating an instantly dangerous situation.
Not to mention the obligatory father-figure spy who might not be as trustworthy as he seems' the charming local small-time troublemaker with a very particular set of skills indicating there could be more to his story, and the legendarily intimidating supervising spook who shows up at the war room, takes command and says someone will need to send his wife flowers or whatever else it will take to get her to forgive him for standing her up.
If you think Im giving away too much, trust me: All of those developments are just the tip of the modern-day Cold War Iceberg.
Unlocked has the DNA of many a st century late summer release: Its a well-made but terribly uneven film thats been sitting on a shelf for two years, despite the credentials of the veteran director and a star-studded cast.
I will now talk about that director and some of the main players in Unlocked, and in parentheses, you will see references to far better films on their IMDB charts.
Noomi Rapace the original, Swedish Girl with the Dragon Tattoo movies plays the hard-boiled undercover CIA agent Alice Racine, who specializes in interrogating and breaking, aka unlocking, suspected terrorists. Its been five years since Alice was assigned to a desk job after a field operation went tragically wrong  but now shes been pulled back into the game, whether she likes it or not. Theres a plot afoot to take down London via biological terrorism, and Alice is the best hope to crack the case.
Toni Collette Muriels Wedding, The Sixth Sense is the tough-talking head of Britains MI. John Malkovich Places in the Heart, In the Line of Fire and oh yes, Being John Malkovich hams it up  surprise!  as Alices quirky, shifty supervisor at the CIA.
Orlando Bloom the Pirates and Lord of the Rings franchises tries to go street thug with his Cockney accent and tattoo-spangled neck, but the male models cheekbones and man bun dont help the cause. Michael Douglas hes Michael Douglas is Alices longtime mentor, who urges her to forget the past and stop blaming herself for things over which she had no control.
Time and again, the mission is compromised and blood is spilled as Alice scrambles to survive and to untangle the seemingly endless web of deception enveloping her. At times she comes across as brilliant and innovative and clever' on other occasions were like, Come ON, Alice! How did you not see that coming?
Director Michael Apted Coal Miners Daughter, Gorillas in the Mist, The World Is Not Enough, now , films Unlocked with no small amount of style  and an acknowledgment weve seen much of this before.
One scene is reminiscent of Rear Window. A pitch-perfect score accompanies some of the sweeping, overhead establishing shots, telling us danger lurks somewhere below. When Douglas sophisticated urbane character is featured, the visuals tones are often rich and golden. When Blooms gritty bounder is front and center, Unlocked looks more like a bleak indie. This is by no means a sloppy or lazy effort.
But its still a mess.
