Few comedy franchises in film history have a more bizarre sagathan the National Lampoons Vacation series.
Yup, the original Harold RamisJohn Hughes film from  was a low-rent comedy classic, with Chevy Chases bumbling Clark Griswold hell-bent on taking his family from Chicago to the California theme park Wally World.
After that, things got really weird. Different actors of various and inconsistent ages played the Griswolds children, and the quality of the films ranged from dreadful European Vacation in  to sporadically funny s Christmas Vacation to unwatchable s Vegas Vacation.
Now were subjected to Vacation, with Ed Helms as Clarks grown-up son Rusty, and its a vile, odious disaster populated with unlikable, dopey characters bumbling through mean-spirited set pieces that rely heavily on slapstick fight scenes, scatological sight gags and serial vomiting.
Pack the car and take the whole family!
The usually likable Helms does a variation on the cheerfully clueless, lovable semi-loser persona hes often played on TV and in the movies.
RELATED: Ed Helms dove right into Griswold role
Rusty is a pilot for a bargain-basement airline. Hes married to the lovely Debbie Christina Applegate, who seems a bit restless in their relationship. Skyler Gisondo is uber-sensitive older brother James, who keeps dream journals, plays the acoustic guitar and always seems to be on the verge of tears. Steele Stebbins is little brother Kevin, who hates his older brother and is constantly attacking him physically, berating him verbally and wishing death upon him.
The little monster tormenting his bigger brother shtick is funny for about  seconds. After that, the joke gets really old, and kinda sick.
With the Chicago area-based family stuck in a vacation rut of staying at the same cottage in Michigan year after year after year, Rusty has a brainstorm: Theyll drive to Wally World, just like the Griswolds did back in the day. Theres a mildly funny bit in which Rusty and his kids talk about the original vacation, and James says hes never even heard of the original vacation, and Rusty says this vacation will stand on its own.
Let the wacky road-trip antics ensue! Theres a callback to the famous scene from the  film where Clark leers at a beautiful blonde Christie Brinkley who zips by in a red convertible  but this time around, the payoff is brutally unfunny. A stopover at Debbies college results in some really bad acting from actresses playing sorority girls, some cringe-inducing reveals about Debbies past and a drinking-and-vomiting scene, because we havent had enough of those in crass comedies.
Leslie Mann cameos as the grown-up Audrey, whos married to a chiseled idiot a game Chris Hemsworth and is profoundly unhappy. Chevy Chase and Beverly DAngelo show up late in the story to reprise their roles as Clark and Ellen Griswold  but writer-directors John Francis Daley and Jonathan M. Goldstein have turned them into sad, unfunny old people. Clark in particular seems to be utterly and completely insane. He was always a goof, but geez  THIS is his fate?
Vacation earns its R rating, thanks mostly to language. But whether its Rusty learning the details of Debbies promiscuous past, or Rusty and his older son having one of the more uncomfortable conversations about sex youll ever see on the big screen, the frankness far outweighs the actual laughs. Im all for bawdy, politically incorrect, wildly inappropriate humor  when there are consistent and genuine laughs to be mined from the material.
This stuff just sits there like a steaming pile of stuff you walk around.
