She speaks his name.
Many times in this movie, she speaks his name  often in a moment of deep drama or intense crisis.
Valerian!
Valerian!
VALERIAN!
And every time she speaks his name, it is proof one can deliver a terrible performance in just four syllables.
Not to single out Cara Delevingne, the model turned actress who stars in Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets and who is the one crying Valerian! throughout this movie.
Hers is not the only stiff acting job in Luc Bessons bizarre and bloated and clunky pop sci-fi epic. Between Delevigne and her co-star Dane DeHaan, theyre so wooden they could have floated forever in the waters near the sinking Titanic and saved Rose AND Jack.
Also, Rihanna is in this movie as a sultry stage performer, and even when she is disguised in a variety of shape-shifting CGI personas, she does not give us a good performance either. Its as if there was a Bad Acting Virus in the air on the sets of this film, and just about every performer involved was infected.
Based on a popular and long-running series of French comic books, Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets pops with candy-colored visuals and begins with some promise: a centuries-spanning medley set to the tune of David Bowies Space Oddity, and a surreal, oddly beautiful scene on the planet Mul, where an androgynous-looking species exists in loving, peaceful harmony with nature  until a nearby war literally crash-lands on the beach.
For the remaining two hours-plus, Valerian is an excruciatingly repetitive, sparsely plotted, slow-witted, weird-for-the-sake-of-being-weird bomb. It has been said it takes a truly talented artist to make a truly memorable work of junk, and that certainly holds true here.
DeHaan, playing a Han Solo-type character with zero panache and making Harrison Ford look like he has the range of Daniel Day-Lewis, is the obligatory brave and talented but rebellious and reckless rogue agent with the United Human Federation humans being just one of hundreds upon hundreds of species co-existing in the vast universe. Delevingne, all arched eyebrows and flat line readings, is his partner Laureline, a feisty and capable but more conventional operative.
Early in the story, Valerian proposes to Laureline. It comes out of the blue and seems so insincere we wonder if hes joking. Laureline herself tells Valerian to slow down, as they hardly know each other. For much of the rest of the adventure, Valerian continues to express his love for Laureline and his intention to marry her.
It doesnt come off as romantic. It comes across as light stalking.
Much of Valerian is set on Alpha, a huge metropolis containing species from, well, a thousand planets that live in one quadrant or another. The Human Federations Commander Fillitt Clive Owen sends Valerian and Laureline on a vital mission involving Melo, the only surviving creature from the long-extinct Planet Mul.
Let me tell you about Melo. Hes a cute little multi-colored CGI creature with large, sympathetic eyes and a sweet nature.
Melo has a very particular set of skills. If you feed him something  say, a magic pearl  he will almost immediately multiply that item a thousand times and send it right back into the world.
And know they dont come up through his mouth.
Valerian and Laureline encounter all manner of strange and wacky creatures along their journey. One entity is vaguely reminiscent of Jabba the Hut. Some resemble certain droids from recent Star Wars films. A trio of duplicitous informers look they were just kicked out of the Star Wars cantina.
The been there, seen that visuals also bring to mind Blade Runner, the Guardians of the Galaxy movies and Bessons own The Fifth Element. Sure, the pricey special effects are impressive to behold though, as usually the case, the D is nothing to text home about. And yes, at times Valerian creates a strange and beautiful universe.
Which ultimately means nothing, because the plot is paper-thin, the big twist is obvious from the moment we are introduced to the character central to that big twist  and the two leads asked to carry the film deliver their lines as if theyre auditioning for a local theater group and they have no chance of getting a callback.
Ive seen worse movies this year. I think.
