You might be so turned off by Brad Pitts broadly comic performance in War Machine youll bail on this wartime satire within the first hour.
You might think: What is he even DOING?
Pitt clenches his jaw as if hes just seen Sling Blade, speaks in an attention-getting bark, makes weird hand gestures and even walks and runs with a stride so uniquely strange he looks like a cartoon character come to life.
Its deliberately over the top, and I wouldnt be surprised if some observers say Pitt made huge miscalculations in his acting choices with the result being the worst performance of his career  but I found it to be a brazenly effective piece of work, well-suited to the material.
Writer-director David Michds War Machine is a pitch-black wartime comedy in the tradition of Dr. Strangelove, Catch-, MASH the movie, Wag the Dog and Three Kings.
Based on Michael Hastings non-fiction book 'The Operators,' this is a thinly disguised dramatization of the American war effort in Afghanistan in the late s as spearheaded by Gen. Stanley McChrystal. After Hastings published an extraordinary article in Rolling Stone magazine in which McChrystal was openly critical of high-ranking government officials, McChrystal was forced to resign as Commander of U.S. and NATO Coalition Forces in Afghanistan.
In War Machine, Pitt isnt playing Gen. McChrystal, not at all! Hes Gen. Glen McMahon, a made-up character!
Ahem.
Scoot McNairy plays Sean Cullen, the doppelganger for journalist Hastings. Cullens voice-over narration provides invaluable guidance through the chaos and tumult and uncertainty of the American military mission in Afghanistan.
During one strategy session about the counter-insurgency effort, a Marine raises his hand and has a question: What exactly is the end game here? Keep the peace, protect the people, avoid conflict at all costs, gun down the bad guys, what? Hes all for executing the plan if someone would just tell him the damn plan.
Enter Pitts Gen. McMahon, a supremely confident commander who arrives on the scene, announces he will break the Talibans seemingly unbreakable grip on the Helmand province, turn this thing around and claim total victory for U.S. forces thanks to the power of our  ideals.
Barks McMahon: We will win this thing!
Its as if a World War II caricature has been parachuted in time and has landed in .
Nearly every scene in War Machine is bolstered by some terrific supporting work courtesy of nearly a dozen familiar and most welcome faces.
Ben Kingsley  Im sorry, SIR Ben Kingsley  is the Afghan president, who isnt sure how to react to this gung-ho American general.
Anthony Michael Hall, continuing his string of beefed-up character roles a million miles removed from his teen-geek John Hughes days, is McMahons second in command, Pulver. At one point when McMahon flies off the handle during a black-tie dinner, complaining theres not even a single Afghan sitting at their table, Pulver deadpans, Um boss, Im pretty sure the Afghan ambassador here is from Afghanistan.
Meg Tilly is McMahons long-suffering wife. Topher Grace is McMahons media advisor. Griffin Dunne and Alan Ruck speaking of John Hughes alums drop by. Will Poulter The Revenant and Lakeith Stanfield Get Out represent the soldiers risking their lives for  whatever it is theyre risking their lives for.
We even get a cameo by Reggie Brown, the Chicago actor-comedian who burst onto the scene with his Barack Obama impersonation early in Obamas first term  and yes, he plays Obama in a key scene that illustrates McMahons disillusionment with the president.
At the center of it all is Pitts Gen. McMahon, who might be a little bit crazy and might be out of touch, but is wholeheartedly and unabashedly dedicated to his country and to his troops. He all but invites us to laugh at him, and yet theres something admirable about the guy, even in his most absurd moments, because he always comes across as committed and sincere.
