Its such a cool thing to see an actor known mostly for supporting roles knocking it out the park when he gets the chance to take the lead.
Frank Grillo has been a first-rate contributor to quality fare such as Zero Dark Thirty, Warrior, End of Watch and The Grey. You might know him from the Purge movies or as Crossbones in the Marvel cinematic universe.
I cant think of a performance when Grillo hasnt been interesting and effective  and hes never been better than in Wheelman, a lean and tight thriller in which Grillos character spends the great bulk of the movie behind the wheel, navigating the darker streets of Boston neighborhoods while negotiating his way through an endless series of phone calls, not to mention the occasional attack on his life.
Its a little like a cross between Drive, the great noir crime thriller from  starring Ryan Gosling as a stuntman and getaway driver, and Locke, the brilliant  drama in which Tom Hardy spends nearly the entire movie on a long drive, making and taking phone calls with the key players in a life.
Wheelman isnt quite at the level of those two movies two of my favorite films of this century, but this Netflix original from writer-director Jeremy Rush is one of the most gripping and entertaining action mysteries of the year.
Grillos unnamed character well just call him Wheelman recently served a three-year stint in prison, and hes working off his debt to the Boston mob family that looked after his ex-wife and daughter while he was away. His job is to drive the getaway vehicle, no questions asked, whenever the phone rings and he hears a certain voice.
One night the Wheelman picks up a couple of bank robbers, including a pushy and inquisitive guy Shea Whigham who keeps pushing Wheelmans buttons to the point where it seems bloodshed is inevitable. Tensions cool for a moment, but as the robbery unfolds, Wheelman gets a call telling him he needs to leave the two men at the scene of the crime  because theyre planning to kill him at the drop point.
This is the first of many situations requiring Wheelman to make a snap decision  and if hes wrong, hes most likely a dead man. He knows hes being double-crossed, but maybe hes actually being triple-crossed.
In between some terrific chase sequences and some creatively filmed confrontations at one point, its as if the viewer is sitting in the car, watching the Wheelman take on a gang of bad guys, and the sounds of violence are muffled because the windows are closed, the Wheelman is on the phone with his ex-wife and his teenage daughter and even at one point the daughters boyfriend.
Of course, none of these characters have any idea what Wheelman is dealing with, even as he argues with his daughter about her curfew, tells the boyfriend hes got a  p.m. curfew, and pleads with his wife not to take full custody of their girl. If she knew what was really going on, Wheelman wouldnt stand much of a chance in court.
The domestic detours initially seem like comic relief  or at least family drama relief  but as Wheelman sinks deeper and deeper into the bloody quagmire involving the robbery and a bag of , and trying to figure out whos figuratively taking him for a ride, he realizes his family could also 
Well. Ill say no more, other than to make sure you hit Pause if you have to walk away from the Netflix stream for a moment, because you dont want to miss a trick here.
