Look, its a Wiener Dog!
The Wiener Dog, aka the Hot Dog, aka the Dachshund, is one of the more smile-inducing pups in Gods kingdom. Dachshundsprobably are not aware of just how funny and endearing they look as they zip about on those four short legs, but theyre a hoot.
In Todd Solondz weird and melancholy and stinging and funny and heartbreaking and slightly sick Wiener-Dog, a dachshund who goes by many names is passed from owner to owner for a variety of reasons, acting as the conduit for what is basically a series of short films about typically Solondz-ian eccentric characters.
Theres even an honest-to-goodness Intermission you wont want to miss.
This movie is more bite than bark. It has legs. Its no shaggy dog story, Im telling ya. Although one scene near the beginning of the film and one near the very end DID make me want to look away and play dead.
Sorry. On with the tail. Er, tale.
Warning to parents: Your kids might have loved Finding Dory and The Secret Life of Pets, but please resist all temptation to make it an animal trilogy with Wiener-Dog. This is for adults  adults with a strong stomach and an appetite for the dark cinematic musings of Solondz, whose previous work includes Welcome to the Dollhouse, Storytelling and Palindromes.
Dachshunds really 'dumb,' Todd Solondz tells Bill Zwecker
When we meet Wiener-Dog, he has been gifted to a little boy named Remi Keaton Nigel Cooke who is in remission from leukemia. His father, Danny Tracy Letts, thinks the Wiener-Dog as hes called will be good for the boy and teach him responsibility' his mother Dina Julie Delpy thinks its a horrible idea and isnt shy about saying so.
Im not even sure what style of acting Tracy Letts is employing, but its one unique piece of work, as he barks out his lines like a drill instructor and even stands in a way Ive never seen anyone stand in real life or on camera, ever. Delpy also kills in a long and very twisted monologue in which she explains in horrific detail to her son why Wiener-Dog should be spayed. Theres a lot of talk about a horrible serial rapist dog in Europe.
After Remi feeds Weiner-Dog a granola bar, leading to  well, disaster, Danny brings the pup to the vet to be put down  but the vets assistant Dawn Greta Gerwig, all big glasses and wide-eyed wonderment kidnaps Wiener-Dog and nurses her back to health. Next thing we know, Dawn is on a road trip to Cleveland with her childhood friend Brandon Kieran Culkin, whom she hadnt seen in years until bumping into him at a convenience store.
Culkin gives one of the more interesting performances of his career as Brandon. Were not sure if this guy has serial killer potential or if hes just a little off, but once we get to Cleveland, we see another, unexpected side of Brandon.
Later Wiener-Dog winds up with Danny DeVitos Dave Schmerz, a sad-sack film-writing professor at a middling college who sold one mediocre screenplay some  years ago and has become something of a joke among the student body. Schmerz walks around as if theres an actual black cloud hovering just about him. Schmerz comes from a German term that means ache or pain. Wiener-Dog is his constant companion, but he barely pays attention to Wiener-Dog  until he uses Wiener-Dog to carry out a twisted bit of mayhem.
Finally Wiener-Dog lands with Ellen Burstyns Nana, an artist who is losing her eyesight. Zosia Mamet Girls is Nanas granddaughter, visiting for the first time in four years and bringing with her a horrible human being who calls himself Fantasy Michael James Shaw and fancies himself a great artist. Nana confronts her own mortality in a dreamnightmare sequence that will give you the chills.
In fact, allof the four vignettes in Wiener-Dog touch on mortality and how humans  the only beings on the planet who are aware of their own inevitable fate  deal with the deaths of loved ones and the knowledge their day could be coming, in some cases sooner rather than later.
And through it all, theres our Wiener-Dog, proud and playful and a little mischievous and fiercely loyal to whoever has the hand that pets her and feeds her and scratches her ears with love.
