Behind bars for the rest of his life, dead to his family, hated by hundreds upon hundreds of victims, Robert De Niros Bernie Madoff is still in semi-denial, still defending himself on some level  still incapable of being completely honest with himself or with the journalist across the table from him.
Let me ask you a question, he says. Do YOU think Im a sociopath?
We dont hear an answer. The lens zooms in for an extreme close-up. De NiroMadoffs eyes fix on the journalist, and then dart this way and that, ever so slightly. Its as if Bernie is fighting with all his might from the inside to keep a poker face, and he cant quite do it.
What an effective piece of acting from the great De Niro  who, lets be honest, hasnt always come across in later years as if hes giving the full effort to certain roles.
Much of De Niros performance in the HBO original film The Wizard of Lies is in close-up, as if the veteran and accomplished director Barry Levinson Rain Man, Diner, 'Wag the Dog is almost daring De Niro to phone it in.
He doesnt. Not for a second. Its finely calibrated acting from one of the all-time best.
Based on the book by Diana B. Henriques who plays herself  quite well  and is in fact the journalist across the table from Madoff in the aforementioned scene, The Wizard of Lies is overlong and repetitive in some stretches, but thanks to De Niros fine work, Levinsons steady direction and the rich, tragic, complex, real-life source material, this is a strong and engrossing piece of filmmaking.
The filmmaker doesnt indulge in The Wolf of Wall Street or The Big Short stylistic flashes to explain the intricacies of Madoffs breathtakingly enormous Ponzi scheme, reportedly the largest fraud of its kind in U.S. history. This is more about Madoffs unsettlingly quiet, borderline creepy demeanor, his off-the-charts narcissism, his pathological inability to tell the truth  and the devastating effects the scandal had not only on Madoffs victims, but on his wife, his sons and their families, all of whom are given mostly sympathetic treatment here. We do get a glimpse into how Madoff worked his clients in flashback scenes.
The journalist Henriques tries to dig deep into Madoffs core, to find some semblance of true regret, something resembling a conscience. Madoff reminds her he warned his clients not to put ALL of their savings into his hands, because you never know what might happen.
Right. Like your most trusted adviser taking every last dime you ever sweated for, and never looking back.
Michelle Pfeiffer plays Madoffs wife Ruth, and as much as I admire so much of what Pfeiffer has done in her career, I found much of her performance distracting, mostly due to a wildly over-the-top accent that sounds as if it was lifted directly from Married to the Mob. Still, Pfeiffer manages to make us feel sorry for Ruth, who lost both of her sons one to cancer, one to suicide in the years after the scandal, and finally stopped visiting Bernie in prison. A scene in which Ruth drives a Meals on Wheels van and ignores Bernies repeated calls probably wont elicit much sympathy from the many, many families that were wiped out by Madoffs greed and utter disregard for humanity  but it comes across as authentic and sad.
De Niros fellow Academy Award winner Richard Dreyfuss went for a bigger, showier, flashier performance in last years ABC-TV movie 'Madoff.'
Perhaps certain pieces of Madoffs true nature can be found in both portrayals. Neither actor did him any favors, nor does he deserve any.
