As a nifty exercise in paying homage to certain filmmaking styles of the s and s in parallel stories seemingly destined to meet at some point, Todd Haynes Wonderstruck is quite the achievement.
A lush and booming and period piece-appropriate score by Carter Burwell accompanies the dialogue-free, expertly faded, black and white sequences set in .
These scenes take us back in time. Not just in subject matter, but in the very tone and personality of the storytelling.
When were in , the screen pops with sun-dappled daytime oranges and browns, and nighttime shades of greens and reds and blues. The soundtrack pulsates with 's classics such as David Bowies Space Oddity and Deodatos jazz-funk-synth take on Also Sprach Zarathustra which hasnt been used to such great effect in a film since Peter Sellers Chance the Gardener first journeyed into the outside world in s Being There.
For Haynes, the director of visually stunning but relatively chilly-to-the touch films such as Carol and Far From Heaven, this is arguably as close as hes come to tackling mainstream, audience-friendly fare  but when we get to the payoff moments, I can easily envision a scenario where there wont be a moist eye in the house.
Were too busy thinking, Well played! to feel a genuine tug of the heart.
Wonderstruck is based on the novel of the same name by Brian Selznick, whose 'The Invention of Hugo Cabret' was the basis for Martin Scorseses Hugo. In a deliberate fashion that presents myriad mysteries and waits a LONG time to deliver any payoffs, Haynes alternates between two stories.
The  thread centers on Rose the wonderfully expressive Millicent Simmonds, a deaf little girl living with her strict and overprotective father in Hoboken, New Jersey. Rose is obsessed with the famous New York stage and film actress Lillian Mayhew Julianne Moore, and one day she runs off to New York City to find Lillian. Roses adventures eventually take her to the American Museum of Natural History, and well leave it at that.
Now lets switch to , where young Ben Oakes Fegley lives with his aunt in Gunflint, Minnesota. Bens mother Michelle Williams has recently died in a car crash, before she ever revealed the identity of Bens father.
When Ben finds a clue that could lead him to his dad, he sets out for New York  and HIS adventures eventually take him to the American Museum of Natural History.
Oh, and Ben has recently been struck deaf by a freak accident, so, like Rose in the New York of  years ago, he is often faced with nearly insurmountable challenges of communication as he tries to get to the truth.
So-called cabinets of wonder  enormous cabinets filled with all sorts of artifacts and clues to the past  play a prominent role in Wonderstruck, to the point where we begin to believe theres going to be a supernatural element in these twin stories. Especially when Moore shows up in both stories. Ill not reveal if the connection over a half-century is supernatural or timeline-logical, or somewhere in between.
It makes sense in the end. Well, MOST of it makes sense.
Wonderstruck is a smart and interesting and well-acted film.
Were just never really struck with  wonder.
