Wonder Woman comes from a place of peace.
Literally.
Gal Gadot is easily the most inspirational and the most heroic and the most real Wonder Woman in movie and television history.
Its a fully realized, three-dimensional characterization of an iconic DC Extended Universe character that has never gotten her due  until now.
Gadots DianaWonder Woman is brilliant but unsophisticated' brave but sometimes reckless' compassionate yet stubborn' idealistic yet capable of deadly force when theres no other choice' endowed with astounding powers but as yet unsure of how to harness and master all her gifts.
Director Patty Jenkins origin story is packed with heart and empathy, and we have Gadots endearing performance to thank for that  but its also a byproduct of the timeline.
We meet the Amazon princess Diana when she is just a little girl living on the remote in more ways than one and beautiful and idyllic island of Themyscira.
Little Diana and then teenage Diana, and then the young woman Diana is obsessed with becoming the greatest warrior on the island, much to the chagrin of her mother, Queen Hippolyta Connie Nielsen.
The queens sister, Gen. Antiope the great Robin Wright, looking a bit uncomfortable in the helmet and the body armor, argues Diana must be prepared for the inevitable day when their peaceful paradise comes under attack. Queen Hippolyta wants to shelter Diana from the outside world for as long as possible  and she makes it clear Diana mustnt ever learn the true nature of her origins.
This seems a bit  unrealistic. After all, there are no men on the island. Also, Diana clearly possesses supernatural skills. When she crosses those bracelets, THINGS HAPPEN. Why not just tell Diana whats what?
Little matter. We know the story isnt going to stay on the island forever. When the American pilot Steve Trevor Chris Pine crashes in the waters off Themyscira during World War I, Diana saves his life  but then all hell breaks loose as the Germans storm the beach. Blood is shed, lives are lost, and Diana is exposed to a world she never knew existed.
The early scenes between Gadot and Pine are sweet and funny and infused with just the right amount of sexual tension. When Diana happens upon a naked Steve, takes it all in and asks if this what the typical man looks like, Steve responds, Well  Im considered above average.
Steve tells Diana about the Great War raging out there in the real world. Diana is convinced Ares, the Greek God of War, is responsible for man turning on his fellow man. If she can find him she can stop him, and the war will end.
As one might expect, Steve isnt exactly onboard with the whole Ares thing, but he IS onboard with returning to London with Diana. Let her look for Ares while he tries to convince his military superiors the Germans are developing a deadly chemical weapon that can penetrate gas masks and could result in the death of tens of thousands of Allied forces and innocent civilians.
Like many a superhero origins story where the main character is from another world and now must try to assimilate, we get many a scene were DianaWonder Woman is alternately amazed, amused and taken aback by the strange ways of these humans.
And of course shes quite the sight herself. Lets be real, that revealing costume would turn heads in  London, let alone a century prior.
Director Jenkins and the team of writers credited with the screenplay and story take us through the paces of developing the villains, including Elena Anayas creepy Doctor Poison and Danny Hustons megalomaniacal Gen. Erich Lundendorff, and introducing us to the obligatory ragtag bunch of anti-heroes that Steve rounds up for the mission to save the world.
 Trainspotting movies is Charlie, a sharpshooter battling PTSD' Said Taghmaoui is Sameer, a secret agent and master of disguise' Lucy Davis provides comic relief as Etta Candy, Steves loyal and true secretary' Eugene Brave Rock is Chief, who takes no sides in the war but clearly is more good guy than mercenary.
Diana is horrified by the realities of war. Shes ever more convinced Ares is responsible for all this carnage, leading to some moments of true dramatic impact, as Steve tells her she needs to wake up and realize not everyone is good and pure of heart, and man is capable of great violence and shocking cruelty. At times Wonder Woman plays more like a World War I drama that just happens to include a warrior for justice with incredible powers instead of a superhero origins story  and thats part of what makes the film so compelling.
When Diana DOES spring into action, Wonder Woman rocks. Its as if were learning exactly what shes capable of at the same time Diana is discovering the depths of her powers.
Chris Pine is perfectly cast as the cocky but noble and quite dashing Steve Trevor. The supporting players, including David Thewlis in a pivotal role best left for you to discover, are all terrific.
Gal Gadot shines in the title role. Diana is sweet and sexy and clever and intense, and she moves with the grace and power of a superhero gymnast among other skills. Steve and his buddies are suitably amazed at what she can do, but they quickly shift from being shocked to saying without hesitation:
Im with her.
