You know Wonder is going to be a Cry Movie, what with the amazing young actor Jacob Tremblay Room playing a brave and amazing -year-old boy named August Auggie Pullman, who was born with a genetic facial deformity and has undergone some  operations  but still alarms adults and freaks out kids merely by taking off his space helmet and letting the world see him.
What elevates Stephen Chboskys adaptation of the bestselling novel of the same name by R.J. Palacio is the myriad ways in which Wonder catches us just a little off-guard and puts lumps in our throats even when Auggie is off-screen, and were learning about supporting characters who rarely get their own sections in movies such as this.
Every once in a while, a characters name pops up on the screen, and the story shift to that individuals point of view.
Auggies -year-old sister, Via Izabela Vidovic, in a lovely performance, dearly loves her brother and has willingly yielded the family spotlight to him all these years  but Via wishes her mother Isabel Julia Roberts would once, just once, draw a picture of her, ask her about the first day of school, look at her at the dinner table the way she looks at Auggie.
Or how about Vias best friend since they were little kids, Miranda Danielle Rose Russell? Shes come back from summer camp with pink streaks in her hair and a nose ring and a sudden lack of interest in being Vias friend any more. When we drop in on Mirandas world, theres a surprising and moving motive behind the Mean Girls persona.
Even Jack Will Noah Jupe, who becomes Auggies first real friend but then becomes estranged from his pal, gets his own scene or two.
All of these detours eventually circle around to the story of Auggies adventures in the fifth grade in his first year at school with other students his mother had been home schooling him up to that point. But when the focus shifts to Auggie, were more invested in the story as a whole because we understand and care about some of the key players in this pivotal period of his life.
On more than a few occasions, Wonder ladles on the syrup. No movie should feature the White Stripes sweet but overused Were Going to Be Friends not once, but twice. The second time is an almost guaranteed Whimsy Overdose.
When your movie is about a brave but vulnerable little boy with facial differences, you probably dont need to pile on the sentimentality with an adorable dog whos been a part of the family since Auggie was born, which was a decade ago, and you do the math, and Im not saying theres a scene where Daisy the dog whimpers and Auggies mom says, Are you OK girl? but Im not saying theres isnt one, either.
Owen Wilson gives one of his most endearing performances in years as Auggies dad. Wilson is still sporting that surfers haircut and he retains some of his long-running Hey, dude cool, but hes perfectly believable as a hipster dad who often plays the good cop to moms bad cop.
Roberts, who whips out the most infectious laugh in the movies at an opportune time, does fine work as Auggies mom, who has pretty much set her life on hold from the moment Auggie was born.
The young actors, notably Izabela Vidovic as Auggies sister Via, Nadji Jeter as a potential love interest for Via and Millie Davis as a girl named Summer who tires of her classmates making fun of Auggie, are terrific.
Daveed Diggs does strong work as Mr. Browne, a former Wall Street hotshot now teaching. Mandy Patinkin is Mr. Tushman the principal, who embraces the obvious jokes connected to his last name, sports a wise mans beard and makes decision with a crinkle in his eyes. Who wouldnt want Mandy Pantinkin as their middle-school principal?
Unrecognizable under the prosthetics and the makeup, Jacob Tremblay is indeed wondrous as Auggie. Hes playing a boy who is smart and pure of heart and just a good kid overall  but like any -year-old, hes prone to outbursts of temper and selfish behavior, and a tendency to think nobody else in the world ever has any problems, ever.
The learning curve for Auggie is just beginning. The same could be said of those just getting to know him.
Theyll soon see its their good fortune to have Auggie in their lives.
