By the time I got through Woodshock, the stench was killing me and strong.
There was the persistent air of pretentious nonsense.
The distinct perfume of self-pleased, overconfident, artsy claptrap emanating from the co-directors palette.
I definitely detected more than a whiff of overacting.
As for the plot and some of the late-movie twists  whats that smell? Its what bulls leave behind after a satisfying meal.
You know a movie is aiming for the stars while digging itself into a hole when it features scenes of tree-hugging  as in a character literally hugging a tree  and doesnt seem to understand how that is an open invitation to mockery if the subsequent material doesnt step up to the plate.
Kirsten Dunst, an actress of solid if not particularly searing talent but often admirable ambition in her choice of challenging film roles, stars as Theresa, who will guide us through this hazy, convoluted, Byzantine journey. We quickly realize Theresas point of view doesnt necessarily jibe with reality, but thats OK, thats potentially interesting.
Very early on, we see a heartbroken Theresa with her bedridden, terminally ill mother Susan Traylor, preparing to help her mom commit assisted suicide. Theresa spikes a joint with a poisonous liquid substance, gives her mom a few last kisses on the forehead, and then presses the deadly joint to her mothers lips.
Nearly everything about that scene  nearly every choice of camera angle, nearly every decision about how long to remain on a particular shot  announces Woodshock as a film more concerned with the filmmakers intention to advertise their artistic vision and provoke us than any attempt to engage the audience on an authentic and empathetic level.
Turns out Theresa works at a medical marijuana dispensary run by the brooding and deeply troubled and obviously creepy Keith Pilou Asbaek, Euron Greyjoy from Game of Thrones. In addition to selling pot over the counter, Keith has a thriving side business as the Doctor Kevorkian of the neighborhood. Ready to end it all? Keiths your man!
Not that Keith isnt haunted by his role as the middleman to deaths door. Most nights, you can find him at the local bar, hammered out of his mind, pouring coins into the jukebox, dancing like a second-rate Jim Morrison and acting like a third-rate Michael Shannon.
Theresa lives with the dullard Nick Joe Cole, who works for Keith  who obviously has a thing for Theresa.
Nick resembles another key character in the movie. Maybe that has significance. Maybe not.
Theresas resemblance to her mother was so strong, its a point of comment in the movie. Maybe that has significance. Maybe not.
Woodshock is its own worst enemy. The more the filmmakers play around with whats real and whats a dream or an element of Theresas delusions, the less were invested in whats actually happening with Theresa. A late scene of shocking violence is rendered dramatically impotent because by that time, theres one of two possibilities: another cheap fantasy, or a lazy and arbitrary plot development.
The directors of Woodshock are Kate and Laura Mulleavy, the sibling founders of the Rodarte brand.
They clearly have an eye for fashion. As filmmakers, they clearly have an eye for fashion.
