For Austin Powers in Goldmember, the third installment of the franchise in , a bounty of big-name celebrities, from Tom Cruise to Katie Couric to Danny DeVito to John Travolta to Gwyneth Paltrow, made some hilarious cameos.
Such a gimmick was hardly a new idea even then  but Goldmember co-writer and star Mike Myers and director Jay Roach executed the celebrity cameo drive-by with precise comedic timing. There was a PURPOSE to these famous faces appearing in the movie.
Cut to  and Zoolander , directorco-writerstar Ben Stillers follow-up to the  fashion world satire, which was a mild hit domestic box office gross of  million upon its release but became something of a cult favorite over the years. To this day, some millennials will dress up for Halloween as Stillers Derek Zoolander or Owen Wilsons Hansel or Will Ferrells Mugatu.
The celebrity cameo factor in Zoolander  is off the charts. Some of the biggest names in pop music and some of the most famous actors in the world appear in the film  either playing themselves or doing brief turns as outlandish characters. Hardly a scene goes by without another celebrity popping up, giving us the chance to say, Hey, theres fill in the blank!
Problem is, with only a very few exceptions, theres nothing particularly original or funny about these famous folks dropping in. Often, the visual sight gags or the one-liners fall flat with a resounding thud.
Even in a goofy, stupid, outrageous satire, it helps if the characters in the movie are somehow integral to the progress of the story  silly as that story may be. Here, what little momentum the movie has is often stopped in its tracks.
CELEBRITY CAMEO SPOILER ALERT!
Although the ads for the film give this away anyhow.
The opening sequence of Zoolander , directed by Stiller in the style of serious international spy thrillers, serves notice were in for a bumpy ride.
A guy in a hoodie who turns out to be Justin Bieber is on the run on conveniently deserted streets, with two assassins on motorcycles attempting to gun him down. When one of the killers corners Bieber, the end result is overplayed and overwrought and overlong. Maybe because Bieber is such a polarizing figure  strike that, maybe because Bieber is so loathed by many  were supposed to view the scene as fantasy wish fulfillment and perhaps applaud Bieber for going along with it, but the whole thing just feels like a calculated PR stunt.
Zoolander  is set more than a decade after a horrific disaster injured Zoolanders best friend and fellow modeling legend Hansel Owen Wilson and left Zoolander widowed and a single father. Now estranged from his son  no surprise, this dim bulb was a spectacularly awful parent  Zoolander is living in extreme Northern New Jersey as a hermit crab, as he puts it. Zoolanders tenuous grasp of the language is a running and mostly groan-inducing joke in the film.
Meanwhile, Hansel is a recluse as well, living on the West Coast with a group of men and women and animals he calls Orgy, i.e., two years ago they all had an orgy and now theyre living together. OK.
The two forgotten icons of the male modeling world are reunited in Rome when Penelope Cruzs Melanie Valentina, who works for the Fashion Police division of Interpol, believes theyre the keys to solving a series of murders of some of the worlds biggest pop stars.
Thats pretty much the deal. Stiller the director does a fine job of making Zoolander  look like an actual spy movie, but weve seen far better takeoffs, including Spy and Kingsman: The Secret Service in just the last couple of years. As for the jabs at the transient nature of popular culture and the ridiculousness of high fashion world  easy, tired targets.
Given most of us couldnt name a single male model in the history of male modeling, the premise of Zoolander always seemed better suited to a skit or a short film than a feature length film. In fact, the Derek Zoolander character was conceived for short films that played during the VH Fashion Awards in the s.
Some people find Derek Zoolander funny and likable and endearingly dumb. I dont. I find him grating. Zoolander is a stunningly stupid and shallow person who recoils in horror when he learns his long-lost son is overweight, or as he calls him, fat, and even though were clearly supposed to be laughing at Zoolander and not with him, hes still an obtuse jerk. If you find Zoolanders mannered style of speaking and his narcissism and his monumentally tiny brain hilarious, I cant argue with you. Im just not with ya.
It takes a long time for Will Ferrells insanely evil Jacobim Mugatu to make an appearance, and credit to Ferrell for livening things up and scoring some of the biggest laugh lines in the film when he insults some famous fashion designers.
But its far too little, far too late.
