Warning: As you may have guessed by its stealth production no one really knew it existed before a trailer dropped, the less you know about  Dan Trachtenbergs  Cloverfield Lane, the better. It is a film that plays on forced perspective, keeping you in the dark about what exactly is going on. I will tread very lightly in the review to follow, but I wont be hurt if you want to click away right about now. Come back after you've seen it.  Cloverfield Lane is a tight, tense thriller carried by excellent performances from  John Goodman and  Mary Elizabeth Winstead. It has echoes of  Alfred Hitchcock and H.G. Wells embedded in a cat-and-mouse game after the end of the world. Without directly acknowledging it in traditional blockbuster ways, its a sequel to s  Cloverfield, a found footage film about an alien invasion. Its almost like a spin-off from that film, imagining a different story taking place in a different part of the world but in the same universe. Whereas that movie jumped on a current trend in its approach found footage, Dan Trachtenbergs film feels much more old-fashioned in its style, recalling genre pictures of the s and s. Trachtenberg and his team dont explore some of the films potential themes as deeply as I hoped they would and its less visually engaging than it could have been. But this is rock-solid entertainment, a film meant to keep you guessing and jumping for  minutes before it throws you back into the world to argue about its ending. Once in development under the name The Cellar, the script by  Josh Campbell and  Matthew Stuecken with a co-story credit by  Whiplash writer  Damien Chazelle was retrofitted to place it in the world of Cloverfield. So, as Michelle Winstead drives away from her life and partner, leaving her house keys and ring on the table, we hear ominous reports of power outages on the coast over the radio. These opening scenes are clearly designed to be reminiscent of another story of a woman who left the city for a dangerous countryside, as Michelle packing her bags and  Bear McCrearys overheated, Hermann-esque score will make anyone whos seen "Psycho" think of Marion Crane in the opening act of Hitchcock's classic. Its not long before Michelle finds her Norman Bates. After a terrifying car accident, Michelle wakes up in a barren room, chained to the wall. She soon meets her captor, an imposing figure named Howard John Goodman, although he claims to be more of a savior than a kidnapper. He saw Michelles accident just as the sky exploded. Theres been an event outside, and he grabbed Michelle just in time to get her into the bunker he built for just such an occasion. It could be the Russians, the North Koreans or the Martians but, whatever it is, the air probably wont be breathable for one or two years. And isnt Michelle lucky that they have enough food, filtered air, and other supplies in this doomsday preppers bunker to wait it out? Theyre not alone. Just before Howard closed the door, a neighbor named Emmett John Gallagher Jr. barged his way in as well. Emmett, who has seen Howard building this bunker for just such an occasion, confirms enough of what Howard says that Michelle starts to believe. Well-played by the " Short Term " star, Emmett becomes a pivot point for the film, alternating between encouraging Michelle's fears and affirming that Howard is, at least in part, who he says he is. And when she sees something horrible after an aborted escape attempt, she resigns herself to the idea that these two men will be the last human beings she ever sees. But somethings not right with Howard. Hes controlling to an uncomfortable level, especially when it comes to the dynamic between Michelle and Emmett. Theres a fantastic scene of game-playing in which Howards misogyny is laid on the table, and the film keeps us guessing as to just what his intentions or end game will be.    That sense of unease is certainly there in the script and Trachtenberg deserves credit as well, but its John Goodmans performance that makes your skin crawl. He captures a man on the edge of sanity for whom control is key. Hes not an obvious maniac, as some other actors would have played the role, but someone who honestly thinks hes a savior, and thinking that plays into his control-freak God complex. Goodman keeps us guessing, allowing glimpses of the possibly kind man that Howard used to be before all of this happened but even shading those in a sense of conditionality. Howard reminds Michelle and Emmett that he saved them so much that we start to wonder what hes going to expect in return. In terms of performance, the underrated Winstead matches Goodman in every way. So fantastic in  Smashed and  Faults, this is an actress who only gets a small portion of the attention she deserves. She carries  Cloverfield Lane, conveying Michelles conflicted feelings about her predicament and staying so completely in the moment that the tension remains. We only know what she knows, so she has to be our conduit to the film, responding to each new hurdle and conflict as we would.  The final half-hour of  Cloverfield Lane is pretty much going to dominate the conversation around the film. Without spoiling anything, its a series of events in which Michelle finds new challenges around every corner that would only be a spoiler if youve never seen a thriller. While Im not sure its as narratively sound as it could have been and one can see the retrofitting of the traditional thriller into the sci-fi universe Winstead and the filmmakers keep it working through sheer confidence. Like the opening scenes of the film, the final act is largely dialogue-free. Theres none of that character-talking-to-herself nonsense you see in lesser films that arent as sure of themselves when it comes to visual storytelling. So many movies hold your hand as you go over every hill on the rollercoaster. When it gets to its finale  Cloverfield Lane wants you to throw both hands in the air and scream. 