The first English-language film from Norwegian director Eric Poppe is a conscientious and beautifully shot movie that ultimately bogs down in its own disinclination to come to any kind of dramatically useful conclusion about its subject. Said subject is Rebecca. Rebecca is accomplished, brilliant, and beautiful. Just the fact that shes played by  Juliette Binoche tells the viewer those things. Rebeccas a photographer, and as the movie opens, shes snapping away while wearing a relatively unrestrictive hijab, chronicling a group of other women as they prepare asuicide bomber. Accomplished and brilliant as Rebecca is, shes not infallible, and an explosion soon blasts the camera out of her hands and sends her home wounded to her husband Nikolas Coster-Waldau and two daughters. Needless to say, said husband is not too excited with Rebeccas career at this point.  You said you loved me because I had passion, I had fire Rebecca protests to her husband after he intimates that this time, enoughs enough. Its pretty clear right off the bat that Rebeccas addicted to the danger of being a war photographer' there are several senses in which this movie feels like  Kathryn Bigelows  The Hurt Locker with a female protagonist. Only, alas, not as good. The scenes of domestic confrontation and argument are almost determinedly clichd' the adults speak in hushed tones so the children wont hear, theres a lot of staring out of car windows. There are also a lot of stunning vistas of the Irish countryside like a lot of European film productions these days, the movie largely takes place in a real landscape thats also part of the unusual phantom zone of Europe in which non-British-accented English is the default language. By the point one of the daughters observes When Daddy sleeps on the sofa its never a good time, my eyerolls might have become audible.  The movie does pick up here and there, especially when Binoches character gets a chance to explain why she does what she does. When she lays out for her daughter the greed for diamonds and precious metals that sets off civil wars in Africa, the characters anger and commitment come to vivid life. The movie doesnt sufficiently connect those commendable qualities to Rebeccas recklessness, which is vividly conveyed in a scene set in an ostensibly conflict-free site in Kenya that Rebecca visits with her daughter. When an armed group usurps that site, Rebecca ostentatiously puts herself in harms way after dispatching her own child with maniacal haste. Engaging but ultimately frustrating scenes are one thing. Elsewhere, the movie keeps bringing home the inescapable fact that striking imagery, deliberate pacing and scrupulous good taste are not sufficient substitutes for genuine thoughtfulness andor dramatic urgency.  The striking imagery is also sometimes almost laughably misplaced' the movie reaches one climax with whats likely the most immaculately staged school show-and-tell scene in the history of cinema. If Im complaining about this movie a lot for one Im deeming better than fair, its because I was frustrated by how its first-rate ingredients, Binoche chief among them, somehow failed to create a spectacular end result.  