Darkly funny and deeply twisted, " Sins" grabs you from its startling opening sequence and doesnt let go. Youll squirm and cringe and have to watch through splayed fingers during a couple of scenes but youll be gripped throughout, and youll never know where the story is headed. Director and co-writer  Daniel Stamm poses an intriguing moral conundrum here. He presents us with a protagonist who carries out a series of increasingly disgusting and horrific acts, all for financial gain, and yet you inadvertently find yourself rooting for him. " Sins" is a remake of the  Thai film " Beloved" also known as ": Game of Death", but its totally attuned to the desperation of current American economic woes as well as an impatient, culturally-driven desire to get rich quick. Much of the emotional connection we make with the film comes from  Mark Webbers performance. As milquetoast salesman Elliot Brindle, Webber offers us a put-upon everyman, but someone whos decent-hearted enough and, thankfully, not whiny about his troubles that you want to see him succeed. And as the game he agrees to play turns gorier and the body count piles up, we cant help but empathize with him. Besides, who among us wouldnt say yes to the perky, inviting voice on the other end of the line when the cell phone rings? This mysterious, nameless man knows Elliot has just been fired from his job, and that hes about to get married in a couple of days, and that he and his fiance, Shelby  Rutina Wesley, have a baby on the way. He knows that because Elliot has lost his job, he no longer has health insurance, which means he no longer can provide care for his developmentally disabled brother, Michael a great  Devon Graye. And he knows that the brothers crass, racist father  Tom Bower has just been kicked out of his retirement home, which means hell have to move in with Elliot and Shelby who happens to be black. Already tens of thousands of dollars in debt before this horrendous and eventful day began, Elliot agrees to the prospect of making . million fast. All he has to do is fulfill a series of  challenges. After completing each one, hell find that money has been deposited in his bank account in increasing amounts with each step he takes. But if he pulls out or fails to cooperate at any point, he loses everything and its clear hes being watched at all times. The challenges are innocuous at first, if a little gross. Kill a fly ,. Now eat it ,. No.  made me laugh out loud, merely for the chipper tone in the callers voice as he says something awful: "For ,, make a child cry!" Its a scavenger hunt with a sick sense of humor. But it doesnt take long for the demands to turn drastic.   Stamm, the German-born director whose last film was s "The Last Exorcism," finds inspired avenues into the kind of horror material we only think we know. His previous movie was a faux documentary about an Evangelical Louisiana preacher whose exorcisms are all a scam. It was one of the scariest movies to come along in a while in a stripped-down, understated way. His production values may be a bit glossier here and his screenplay which he co-write with  David Birke may feel more structured and less naturalistic, but his inventive instincts remain intact. This is especially true when it comes to the way he reveals each challenge. Its not just: the phone rings, the order comes, we see Elliot carrying the order out. There are surprises in the way they play out every time. Another unexpected element is the fact that Elliot finds himself enjoying his grotesque behavior and we find ourselves enjoying watching him finding a sense of self in the process. Stamm also handles Elliots relationship with his disabled brother in an intelligent, honest way thats free of mawkishness or feel-good delicacy. But theres not nearly enough  Ron Perlman in a small supporting role as the police officer whos trying to piece together all of Elliots varied crimes. And there are probably a couple twists too many in the jam-packed conclusion. But for the most part, " Sins" is solid, dark fun which also has something substantive on its mind. See it with someone who isnt easily offended. 