Assuming that a conventional documentary about Australian musician  Nick Cave would be unrewarding, the makers of ", Days on Earth"  wisely fed their mercurial subject's ego by allowing him to walk them  through a semi-fictionalized account of a typical day in his life.  Having previously directed some music videos for Cave's band The Bad  Seeds, ", Days on Earth" co-directors  Iain Forsyth and  Jane Pollard  know not to underestimate Cave. In his music, he routinely  celebratesdeconstructs his public persona: brutalizer, coward,  agnostic, and wannabe deity. ", Days on Earth" is accordingly not a  biography, but a portrait of the artist as a work-in-constant-progress. In  ", Days on Earth," Cave asks himself what performing today means  to him. He paces the shoreline near his home while narrating archly  about his God-like aspirations. Here, rain isn't just rain: it's a sign  of Cave's mood. Cave then sifts through old photographs, reminisces with  long-time collaborator  Warren Ellis, takes  Kylie Minogue for a drive,  and even talks to a therapist about his father. These canned situations  often lead to surprisingly candid interactions, as when Minogue jokes  that Cave's dancing make him look like "an angry tree," or when Cave  talks with guitarist  Blixa Bargeld about why they parted ways. While  his conversations are consistently thoughtful, Cave never completely  lets his guard down, not even when he's asked to describe his first  sexual experience. He also never apologizes for being a diva, and  characteristically refuses to bridge the self-imposed gap between  himself and his fans, mostly because he routinely navigates that space  through his music. So while Cave talks about terrorizing fans during  live performances in order to feed off their energy, he doesn't discuss  the weird pre-performance head-space that he and his band-mates  routinely enter before concerts. Still, Forsyth  and Pollard keep Cave on task, and cannily made acting naturally the  main theme of ", Days on Earth," as we see in the film's best  scene. Retreating to his recording studio, Cave lays down the vocals  soundtrack for "Higgs-Boson Blues," one of the best songs on "Push the  Sky Away," the Bad Seeds' most recent album. Cave'ssoulful performance,  shot in real-time and in extreme close-up, is that much more impressive  once you realize he's playing a song for Forsyth and Pollard before  he's performed it in front of a live audience. More importantly, he's  singing without the Bad Seeds, a group  that serves as Cave's suit of  armor. Cave knows he's not young anymore, and won't always be able to  control his work or how its perceived. Watching him act accordingly is  really inspiring. 