 Minute Mile at least has the decency to acknowledge that its aware of its underdog sports-movie clichs, especially the ones that made The Karate Kid such an s classic. Kelly Blatz, as a troubled but talented high school runner named Drew, doesnt understand why the aging, alcoholic coach Coleman Richard Jenkins makes him perform all kinds of manual labor when he should be training him for the regional track meet. Among the grueling work that Drew is forced to endure: Sanding the coachs dilapidated boat while coach himself sits back and enjoys yet another cigarette. Wax on, wax off, Coleman says with a wry smile. Director  Charles-Olivier Michaud and writers  Josh Campbell and  Jeff Van Wie use this rare moment of humor to say what were all thinking as viewers. Yet the filmmakers remain unrelenting in running through a checklist of genre conventions. Theres the good-hearted kid from the wrong side of the tracks, the mentor seeking his own redemption, the trash-talking competitor, the mom struggling to keep her family together and the sweetly supportive girlfriend. And the montages oh, so many montages. Even 'Rocky had a montage, to quote a song from the great Team America: World Police. Still,  Minute Mile is efficient in its storytelling which is fitting, given that its about a sprinter and Jenkins and Blatz have solid chemistry with each other. To the surprise of absolutely no one, Jenkins enlivens this well-worn material through his sheer presence, his intelligent choices and the emotional truth he brings to even the most obvious scenes. Hes got his work cut out for him, though, given the hammy lines hes saddled with as his character steadily spouts inspirational nuggets. Running is not just physical. Its in your head, Coleman says when he first agrees to train Drew. And in a repeated theme involving running through your inner demons: If you do face that fear, itll change your life. Drew already has faced a lot of hardship at a young age. His father died when he was a child'  years later, he and his brother a muscled-and-tatted  Cam Gigandet and mother a blowsy, barely-there Kim Basinger are struggling to pay the mortgage on their working-class Seattle home. Older brother Wes, whos on parole, ropes Drew into dropping off cash payments to a seedy local drug dealer. Clearly, this arrangement wont end well. But theres hope for Drew. Hes fast. He gets kicked off the high school track team for being mouthy but maintains a flirty friendship with fellow runner Lisa  Analeigh Tipton, who has an off-kilter likability but is stuck serving as a cheerleader. Coleman sees something special in Drew and offers to teach him everything he knows granted that he changes his event from the  to the mile, and that he strives to run that distance in a punishing four minutes. And as it just so happens, just as Drew is in need of a father figure, Coleman is in need of a son. His own boy who was a talented runner himself was killed in a car accident. Its all extremely formulaic and convenient.    Like Mr. Miyagi, Coleman is sad, lonely and alone and he drinks heavily to numb the pain. Theres a mystical quality to his self-imposed isolation. Do you think its possible that by working with this surly kid, it will improve both of their lives?  First, though, Drew has to agree to Colemans unorthodox training methods, which include running -second sprints through ankle-deep water, dragging a giant tire from one side of a swimming pool to the other and doing quarter-mile laps around the docks instead of at the slick and shiny track. In one artfully lighted montage after another, Drew runs around his neighborhood, at sunset, through the city streets, across parking lots and in slow motion.  Despite its overly familiar trajectory, though,  Minute Mile is nicely understated, and surprisingly not as mawkish as the material might suggest. Michaud depicts the blue-collar Washington settings vividly. And while Blatz is a bit of a handsome, blank slate aside from his characters sullenness, hes believable in his physicality which is crucial given that hes running, or talking about running, or planning to run nearly the entire time. If only his destination were more of a mystery.  