Spectacular goofiness should be expected of " Ronin," an American film loosely based on the true story of  real-life master-less samurai who avenged their disgraced  master's death. As its ads promise, the film features a troll-looking  dude with a mace, a giant in a samurai suit of armor,  Keanu Reeves with a  sword, a tattooed dude with two guns, a sexy lady who floats around in a  sentient Snuggykimono, and a pissed-off fire-breathing dragon who  kinda looks like "The Never-Ending Story"'s  Falkor.But in spite of its enjoyable, easy-to-exploit aspects, " Ronin" is a big budget  spectacle hamstrung by its need to be at once flippant and respectful of  its honor-driven source material. In this version of  the popular story,  samurai seek revenge after Lord Asano Min  Tanaka is disgraced by a young Lord Akira  Tadanobu Asano. The insult in question is not insufficient  tributebribery, as in other versions of the story. This time,  Akira sets up Asano for accidentally disrespecting a fighting  tournament's  rule: only samurai can participate. After Akira poisons  Asano's fighter with magic, half-manhalf-demon Kai Reeves tries to  save Asano's face by fighting on his behalf. But Kai is only a  "half-breed," as he's repeatedly called, and not a real samurai, and is  inevitably caught. The Shogun "the lord of all Japan," as he's  described baldly in an especially tedious bit of exposition is lenient,  so Asano is sentenced to commit seppuku rather than hang "like a common  criminal." So in this version of the tale, Asano's suicide is not a voluntary act,  but a capricious punishment. The ronin's revenge is therefore only ostensibly  about upholding the bushido code, as the Shogun says: it's really about giving  as good as they've gotten. This isn't a major misinterpretation of the story, but it  does suggest that the film's creators didn't know how to dramatize  either the impersonal reasons for Asano's death or his samurai's  subsequent actions.  But what's really troubling about " Ronin"  is its creators's refusal to let it all hang out. In theory, they've  included a lot of fun, over-the-top fantasy elements.The film's plot is a sub-"Lord of the Rings" fantasy about a group of stout-hearted men whose bro-manity is tested by assorted monsters.You will  see a witch  Rinko Kikuchi with Medusa-like hair coyly seduce and try to force-feed with her hair! Mika Ko Shibasaki, daughter of Asano and and lover of Kai. You will also see a baddie credited as  "Lovecraftian samurai," and Reeves fighting back a blast of dragon-fire  with an enchanted sword, and bird-menmonks attacking samurai in a  forest temple. This sort of thing should be fun. Somehow it's not. The goodloopy generic stuff is supposed  to establish the film's serious, parable-like themes, but" Ronin"'s  creators seem to take the film's self-denying message too much  to heart. The result ends up pitting the forces of uptight righteousness against a bunch of almost-attractive baddies, an uneven fight that says a lot about this confused and dreary " Ronin."Whatever its flaws as an interpretation of a legend, this movie still could have rallied to be stupid and awesome, but the filmmakers seem afraid to try.The gonzo sword-and-sorcery elements that should be the film's saving grace are invested with about as much detail as the tragic, tight-sphinctered, duty-centric stuff. Elements that should be flamboyant and fantastic are drained of exuberance.The action scenes are unimaginatively choreographed and shot, excessively edited, and often out-of-focus, and the script's fantasy elements are lazily strung together. You will see this film on an airplane, and it will put you to  sleep.   