 Kill,  Trent Haagas adaptation of  Bryan Smiths novel of the same name, starts with a propulsive, grungy energy that works for about a half an hour. Its the story of a young man caught up in the allure of every beautiful woman he encounters, even if theyre homicidal maniacs. It opens with a shot of a fly stuck in honey. Clearly, our male lead is the doomed bug, and the honey is, well, you get it. At its best, it recalls the cast of crooks, most of them morons aesthetic of writers like  Elmore Leonard or  Carl Hiaasen, and it often has the energy of the late-s crime movies that sprung up in the massive wake of  Pulp Fiction. The films biggest problem is that its greatest asset disappears for way too long and her absence allows one to notice the thin characters and lack of witty dialogue. This is the kind of piece that needs to move MPH from first scene to last for you to overlook its flaws. It slows down for too long to recommend the ride. Matthew Gray Gubler is effective as Chip, the kind of nave, All-American kid who too easily trusts people and rarely considers the outcome of his actions. He literally shovels shit for a living as a sewer worker, and his girlfriend Liza  AnnaLynne McCord was a former stripper and hooker whos tired of having to bang her landlord when she cant pay rent. When she discovers that said landlord has , in a safe, she convinces Chip to help her steal it. Things go very wrong for Chip and Liza, and theyre soon on the run with a witness named Violet  Alisha Boe in the trunk. However, Liza has no qualms about doing what needs to be done with the pretty girl shes going to sell her to her brother, a man who tortures women for sexual pleasure. Yes, its that kind of dark movie. Pitch black. And its as if Chip is seeing the danger and moral depravity of the world for the first time. Hes got to get away from Liza. Now.   McCord is easily the best thing about  Kill, finding the balance between a traditional femme fatale and something more akin to  American Psycho. She captures a woman who knows how to use her beauty to her advantage, but is sick and tired of having to do so. Shell take what she thinks she deserves however she can possibly can, whether its sleeping someone like Chip or cutting someones throat who crosses her. Shes not so much a sociopath as someone who has simply stopped caring about the alleged order of a world that has given her nothing' so now she takes. McCord makes smarter decisions here than most other actresses would.   The problem is that the movie sidelines her in ways I wont spoil, and were stuck with Gubler and Boe, particularly grating as they get into a potential love subplot. The movie feels like a writing struggling to figure out where to take his characters in an extended midsection at a motel and then again in a dark final act in which Chip crosses paths with another crazy killer woman  Sheila Vand of A Girl Walks Home at Night. Its here when you notice that Haaga doesnt quite have the visual language as a director to make this as gritty and intense as it should have been the stakes dont feel real even as bodies are being mutilated and he doesnt have the ear for dialogue as a writer to make the characters feel like more than devices.  Kill cant quite sustain its short running time, lacking enough character or plot to keep its cinematic engine moving, especially after it loses its turbo drive of a leading lady. 