A Bad Moms Christmas has the shoddy look and frantic feel of a slapped-together, cash-grab sequel, because thats exactly what it is.  It arrives in theaters a mere  months after the surprise hit  Bad Moms, which made about  million worldwide  a huge number for a female-driven comedy in the middle of summer blockbuster season.  And so of course theres a second Bad Moms movie, which hits all the same beats and themes as the first Bad Moms movie, only now we have double the moms because the moms of the moms have shown up to wreak even more mom havoc. Plus its Christmas, so theyve thrown in all the usual clichs about how this is not, in fact, the most wonderful time of the year.   This also happens to be the exact same premise as the upcoming Daddys Home , another sequel nobody needed featuring the dads of the dads. Inter-generational holiday hilarity surely will ensue. For now, though, we must struggle mightily through the sight of veteran comic actresses trying to make the most of the weak, one-note material theyve been given.  Every once in a while, A Bad Moms Christmas finds the elusive, raunchy-sweet balance that made its predecessor a success, mostly courtesy of the on-screen mother-daughter duo of  Susan Sarandon and  Kathryn Hahn. But while returning writerdirectors  Jon Lucas and  Scott Moore have replicated the structure and shock value of the original, theyve left out the fundamental truths about motherhood that gave that film substance.  The three ladies at the center Amy  Mila Kunis, Kiki  Kristen Bell and Carla Hahn were recognizable in their anxieties about trying to be all things to all people at all times, and their friendship provided a much-needed connection and catharsis. But A Bad Moms Christmas renders their bond and many of the films antics in the laziest way possible: through slo-mo montages of their drunken destruction. There are about a half dozen in the mall, at the indoor trampoline place scored to loud rock or pop songs. They are filler. If youve seen one, youve seen them all.  Along those lines, each actress is stuck in her characters own specific lane for nearly the entirety of the film with the moms moms going to even more wacky extremes until just about the end, when the story does an emotional about-face and decides to be a tearjerker. Kunis in particular gives it her all and shows surprising range in these moments, but the script hasnt laid the groundwork to get us choked up along with her.  We know from the start, though, that this Christmas has been a debacle. A flashback to six days earlier reveals that Amy, Kiki and Carlas mothers have arrived, ostensibly to celebrate the holiday with their families. But theyve brought emotional baggage along with gifts for the grandkids, dredging up decades of insecurities and resentments.     Amys mom is the condescending and controlling Ruth  Christine Baranski, who thoroughly disapproves of her daughters homespun holiday efforts and instead insists on an expensive extravaganza. Baranski, of course, can do this kind of diva routine in her sleep, and shes one of the few consistent sources of genuine laughs. Kikis mom is the needy and clingy Sandy  Cheryl Hines, in the least developed role of all, who wants to be best friends with her daughter and has trouble with the idea of personal space. And then theres Carlas mom, Isis Sarandon, a degenerate, drunken gambler whos largely been absent and only shows up when she needs money.  In no time, the pressure of living up to the archaic notion of creating a perfect Christmas, magnified by the stress of having their mothers around, causes our moms once again to say: Screw it. And thats about the entirety of the film: escalating mayhem within the genteel confines of suburbia, a concept that has been mined repeatedly and more shrewdly in countless other comedies than it is here. Their dedication to rebellion seems far less enthusiastic than it was before, as if they cant even convince themselves of their purpose.  But Hahn once again is the films MVP, as she was in the original Bad Moms, for her willingness to go to weird, dark places. Like  Melissa McCarthy and  Kate McKinnon, Hahn achieves this delirious state through bold gestures and subtle glances, and shes consistently a joy to watch. This is especially true in her scenes with  Justin Hartley as a hunky Santa with a heart of gold' they meet cute when he steps into the spa where Carla works to get his nether regions waxed before a male stripper competition.  The combination of the innocent and the inappropriate in their sparky exchanges suggests how good this Bad Moms Christmas could have been all along.   