As someone tells Detective Go Gun-Soo  Lee Sun-Kyun, Youve got an interesting fate. The dirty cops fate is the subject of A Hard Day, an effective thriller in which sheer propulsion is the artistic driving force. And I dont mean that in a negative way. Its a film that feels like something  Liam Neeson and Jaume Collet-Serra would devise for the unlikely action star a la  Non-Stop or Run All Night. If they're smart, they'll snatch up the remake rights while you're reading this. Like a Neeson vehicle, at its best, A Hard Day has a breakneck pace that allows one to easily dismiss the more ridiculous, downright nonsensical aspects of its plot. Only occasionally will the eyes roll. For the most part, it works. A Hard Day wastes no time at all on something as silly as set-up. Detective Go is driving home at night in the rain from his mothers funeral when someone steps out in front of his car. He plows into him, cracking his windshield and leaving the victim in a pool of blood. The already-troubled detective cant take any more drama the IA investigation going on at the station is enough to raise his stress level and so he stashes the body in his trunk and drives off. Of course, he turns a corner right into a drunk driving checkpoint, and the cops there become suspicious. What follows is a bizarre scene that should give you an idea what to expect from A Hard Day as some inept police work ends in pepper spraying and tasing. This is a dark comedy thriller, the kind of film that doesnt make social statements as much as seek to entertain for nearly two hours.  Of course, Gos day gets much worse before it gets better. He has a body to dispose of, and, as his mothers casket is being prepared for burial, he has a brainstorm. Where better to hide a corpse than in a coffin? Problem solved, right? Again, writerdirector  Kim Seong-Huns twisted, smart sense of humor kicks in as the movement of the corpse from trunk to casket involves a half-dozen yellow balloons and a remote-controlled toy soldier. I couldnt even explain it. You just have to see it. Go makes it back to the station to discover that the guy he hit was wanted for murder, giving him that classic movie actor look of this is not going to end well for pretty much the rest of the movie. The cops end up hunting for a man thats already been killed in a hit and run by one of them. We havent really seen that before. And then Go gets the phone call. Someone knows about what hes done. And he wants the body back in the worst way. A Hard Day is shot in a lot of tight close-ups, designed to raise tension, although the technique gets a bit overheated at times. For the most part, Lee Sun-Kyun takes advantage of the tight presentation and frenetic pace of the film. Hes forced to play frazzled and confused a lot hes not really ever in complete control but he does a good job at keeping us engaged, as does the writerdirector, who never lets up the pace on a film that could have easily dragged. Again, its reminiscent of films like  Run All Night or Non-Stop in the way it disguises narrative flaws through sheer momentum. Its what you might call a Propulsive Thriller. Youre supposed to just get swept away by the force of it all. Dont ask questions.   Looking a little deeper, I like that our morally shady protagonist is neither the smartest nor dumbest guy in the room. He makes plenty of mistakes. He thinks hes way tougher than he is theres a great beat where his nemesis fakes being more hurt by him after he takes a few punches that tells you a lot about both characters and comes off as practically a Coen Brothers leading man in his ability to take two steps back with every step forward. Its a bit sad that A Hard Day has about four endings, which damages its momentum to that point. The first one comes at around  minutes and would have made for a nice, tidy thriller. It has over  minutes to go. And theres some great stuff in that final act, but it all feels a bit like overkill. Maybe the NeesonCollet-Serra version can trim it down a bit. 