Unexpected success often leads to creative disaster. With no one there to edit his extreme tendencies, to tell him casting himself in the lead might be a mistake, to warn him that breezy comedies shouldnt be nearly two hours long,  Seth MacFarlanes carte blanche that came with the box office success of " Ted" proves to be his undoing. The mistakes made in the production of "A Million Ways to Die in the West," reminiscent of the worst comedic tendencies of the Happy Madison crew, feel like a byproduct of a man-child allowed to do whatever he wants because it worked last time. A failure on nearly every level, "A Million Ways to Die in the West" almost approaches so-bad-you-need-to-see-it categorization. There are scenesjokes that hit the dusty ground of Monument Valley with such a remarkable thud that no one in the preview audience with whom I saw the film laughed. Not one person. Which leads one to ask, how did they make it through the editingpost-production process? As we so often ask ourselves with awful comedies, did they really think this was funny? In the first of several bad decisions, the charmless  MacFarlane a talented writer in the prime of "Family Guy" but completely unengaging as a leading man plays Albert Stark, a sheep herder living in the dangerous time of  Arizona. As he points out repeatedly MacFarlane never wrote a joke he only wanted to tell once Starks world is a deadly one. Cholera, wolves, gunslingers, runaway bulls, exploding flash bulbs' theres always something to kill you on the Wild West frontier. Written with the kind of meta awareness of whats happening around him that makes him feel like a time traveler, Albert is an antisocial, lonely guy, especially after his wide-eyed girlfriend Louise  Amanda Seyfried leaves him for the daringly mustachioed Foy movie-stealing  Neil Patrick Harris, who can do more with a raised eyebrow than MacFarlane can with an entire monologue. Alberts life changes when Anna comes to town. Played by  Charlize Theron with a winsome charm that the film doesnt deserve, Anna sees something in Albert, encouraging him to see how great he really is deep down inside, even though MacFarlane never wrote that into the character. Yes, "A Million Ways to Die in the West" is about a man who gets dumped by one girl only to have a beauty of Therons caliber inexplicably fall head over cowboy boots for him. Its a movie about how great Albert is and yet MacFarlane forgot to make him interesting. Id actually rather hang out with Louise and Foy. Or even buddy Edward  Giovanni Ribisi and his prostitute girlfriend  Sarah Silverman, who dont have sex even though she sleeps with a dozen guys a day and schedules appointments for anal. Again, if you find that joke funny, good news, it will be repeated multiple times. Anna has a secret: shes really the wife of the notorious Clinch Leatherwood  Liam Neeson, a man in black who is riding to town toyou know, I have no idea. MacFarlane cant even be bothered to really set up a film that deconstructs the Western in any sort of narrative sense. He has too many piss jokes to tell. Dont get me wrong. I dont mind a bit of envelope-pushing when it comes to taste in comedy but theres a difference between being edgy and just thinking that the word poop is inherently funny. And, worst of all, MacFarlane telegraphs every joke before he tells it. Hes the kind of guy who is so in love with the punchline that he forgets the set-up. A bit about a family not smiling in a photo at the county fair would be funnier if wasnt a repeat from ten minutes ago. Ditto a bit about quack doctors. Ditto everything after the first scene with Ribisi amp' Silverman. The throwaway bits produce the film's only chuckles because they dont feel underlined, repeated, highlighted and accompanied by a neon sign begging you to laugh.   It doesnt help that MacFarlane brings zero filmmaking style to the film. Perhaps he was too distracted by his performance to notice that "A Million Ways to Die in the West" looks like a TV special. There were times where I was convinced that he was going for a purposefully constructed aesthetic like an old-fashioned Western and times where I think he was just being lazy. It doesnt have to look good, right? As long as we get people talking with our gross-out humor, everything else will be forgiven, right? Did you hear the one about the writerdirector whose success blinded him to what people liked about his first movie? Its not that funny. 