Fans of the hardboiled detective, rejoice. Screenwriter-director  Scott Frank and actor  Liam Neeson, adapting the splendid work of crime novelist  Lawrence Block, have brought a great one to the screen in high, bracing style. A Walk Among The Tombstones not only does justice to one of Blocks most soulful creations, ex-cop and recovering alcoholic turned very unlicensed private dick I do favors for people, and they give me gifts, is how he puts it Matthew Scudder, it stages, single-handed, a bracing revival of a kind of genre movie that many of us have been mourning. That is, a crime drama that isnt all bang-bang and chop-chop. Not that such movies dont offer their pleasures. Hell, Liam Neeson himself has been a welcome feature in many of them. But fans of the likes of  Jackie Brown and  Out of Sight, not to mention older, more classical fare such as  The Maltese Falcon, Murder, My Sweet, etc., have been feeling pretty starved in the contemporary movie climate. A Walk Among The Tombstones provides us a very substantial meal.  The movie begins in , depicting a very bad day for still-on-the-force Scudder, in a scene of brutal intensity and surprise. Its not the first such scene. After moving to , and a New York City rather amusingly in the grip of YK panic, and a sober and dour Scudder getting reluctantly drawn into a peculiar kidnap-and-murder case, director Frank keeps the tension at a steady, insistent simmer even as hes carefully building his characters. When things come to a boil, Frank doesnt kid around. The story revolves around a couple of sickos whove been making sport of kidnapping and ransoming the wives of various drug dealers and traffickers in the city. Because their prey are related to criminals, bringing the police in is a vexed option for the victims' and because the bad guys are sickos, once they get their loot they dont return the victim. Its an even more twisted operation than what Im describing, and Frank depicts just enough of the details to get the viewers stomach churning, and also to understand the anger and indignation building up in the ever-stoic Scudder, whose personal hell can only be kept at bay by not succumbing to those emotions. As the kidnappers up the ante and make their latest victim a -year-old daughter of a drug kingpinwell, the whole thing is likely to cause dropped jaws and possibly detached movie theater armrests.  This isnt the first time Scudders been portrayed on screen: that was in the sadly misbegotten  Oliver Stone Hal Ashby collaboration Eight Million Ways To Die. Tombstones reboots the character and gets him right. Not just physically. Neeson captures Scudders toughness, intelligence, world-weariness, but also his humanity and humor. Doing research for the case, Scudder encounters an African-American homeless teen named T.J. nicely played by Brian Astro Bradley, with whom he strikes up an unlikely but ultimately affecting friendship, making the kid a sidekick of sorts' the movie depicts their affinity in a way thats utterly unpatronizing and convincing. Frank also takes real risks in the movies climactic showdown scene' instead of staging a straightforward action set piece, he staggers the events and intercuts them with a defining scene in Scudders development as a person. The movie ponders how Scudders spirituality will hold up under exposure to a particularly monumental example of evil. Movies such as  Taken, as diverting as they can be, dont ask the viewer to be concerned for the soul of the protagonist. A Walk Among The Tombstones does, and so besides being a dynamite thriller, it gives something not insubstantial as an extra.  