A word of advice for horror movie producers: If youre going to riff on s horror classics like The Omen and  Rosemarys Baby, make sure to look more deeply at why those films connected with viewers rather than just stealing their imagery. Merely mimicking them aesthetically is a hollow exercise, and proof that you dont understand that horror is more than a series of jump cuts and frightening images. Horror, at its best, taps into something deeper. Theres nothing deep about Annabelle, the spin-off of  The Conjuring. It offerssurface level scares without the undercurrent of humanity needed to make them register. Director  John R. Leonetti and writer  Gary Daubermanwork proficiently enough on a technical level to craft a few scenes that get the heart racing, but the climax of Annabelle is so misguided, silly and even offensive that any excuse genre fans may be inclined to make for the mediocre hour-and-a half that precedes it will likely turn to rage.  For the record and its worth noting because of how angry our original review of The Conjuring still makes fans of that film I was a fan of  James Wans  ghost story. The director took a giant leap forward in that work, proving he understands numerous elements that modern horror directors ignore, such as the use of sound design and setting to create tension. These elements are discarded in Annabelle." If you saw the  hit, you remember the creepy doll that wouldnt go away. Ghostbusters Lorraine and Ed Warren kept Annabelle in a locked case, recognizing the true evil held within. How did Annabelle go from a relatively harmless but totally creepy doll to a tool of the devil? Annabelle tries to tell that story, using the Manson Murders and Rosemarys Baby as a backdrop. Some may be tempted to write off Annabelle on concept alone, in that its something of a cash grab, like a straight-to-video sequel designed to strike while a hit predecessor's iron is still hot. Still, I would argue that Annabelle has the core of a good film within it. It's about how changing times in the s, when otherwise safe neighborhood dwellers started locking their doors and apartment denizens began to suspect their neighbors' the iconography of youth became sinister. You can sense shreds of this idea in Annabelle, but the film doesn't develop them. We learn that Annabelle was owned by a lovely young couple named Mia  Annabelle Wallis and John  Ward Horton. In the run-up to the birth of their first child,John gave his wife the doll as a part of her extensive collection. As Mia nears her due date, the couple faces unimaginable horror in the form of a pair of Satanic cultists who break in, stab Mia in the belly, and end up dead in their home. The female cultist happens to be named Annabelle Higgins, and some of her blood lands on the doll Annabelle. Before you know it, Mia is seeing shadowy figures on the stairs, hearing noises in the night and realizing that something evil wants her baby.  Thematically, nothing in Annabelle is developed beyond a level that might make it suitable for horror movie manipulations. When we meet religious characters like Father Perez  Tony Amendola, Annabelle threatens to take on some " The Exorcist" or "The Omen"-like undertones, chronicling a time when some felt that Americans lost touch with their religious institutions. But the movie doesnt really go there. When no one believes Mias haunting stories, Annabelle threatens to become a piece about how new mothers can be ignored, their concerns portrayed as the byproduct of hormones. But this notion isn't developed, either.    There are other problems. Wallis and Horton are remarkably unengaging leads. She mumbles, he over-emotes, and the doll is allowed to steal scenes. And the film is visually flat. Pan reveals panning across a door or room to reveal something in the background are over-used, and the sound is mixed to grating levels. Its a movie that screams "Boo!" instead of trying to get under your skin. T here is one great set piece involving a storage unit in the basement and an elevator that just wont leave it, but thats something you can watch on cable later, while ignoring the weak film that surrounds it.  