Sometimes lightweight isnt a pejorative. Ant-Man, the comics-based superhero movie thats centered around one of the more arguably goofy Marvel Comics characters first prize has to go to a guy named Paste Pot Pete and dont ask achieves its particular magic by keeping its proceedings almost as weightless as its shrunken-down hero. The movie, directed by  Peyton Reed Down With Love,  Bring It On and starring  Paul Rudd, isnt exactly or entirely fluffy, but its pretty damn agile, and as a result provides the most pure, uncomplicated fun, and even joy, of any Marvel picture Ive seen.  The movie opens in , with a digitally de-aged Michael Douglas strolling into an intelligence-gathering fortress and facing down some powerful frenemies, among them Tony Starks dad  John Slattery, a still-lovely-in-middle-age Peggy Carter Agent Carter to Captain America and TV fans and new sneery dude Mitchell Carson  Martin Donovan. Douglas character, Hank Pym, has a red vial containing something called the Pym particle, and SHIELD wants it, and Carsons pretty insistent on the point. It doesnt end well. This appetizer of backstory sets up not only the narrative for this picture, but serves as the equivalent of, um, nation building for the larger conceptual continuity of the MCU, which will be providing the entirety of the United States entertainment content, if all goes according to plan, by the year .  The good news is that your enjoyment of this movie wont be reliant on your getting various in-jokes and character references, even though there are a fair number of them. What the movie delivers for most of its running time is a surprisingly disarming amalgam of The Incredible Shrinking Man and Rififi by way of  Brian De Palmas first Mission Impossible movie, except with  Jules Dassins goofball element thrown back in the mix. Short version: The Pym particle makes the tiny-but-powerful Ant-Man suit operable' in the present day Hanks too old to work it and too protective of his steely daughter Hope  Evangeline Lilly to permit her to put it on. So Hank elaborately recruits newly-sprung-from-prison hackercat-burglar Scott Lang Paul Rudd for a job. Said job involves putting a stop to megalomaniacal Darren Cross a shiny-headed and deliberately-atrociously-outfitted Corey Stoll. Cross is an old protg of Pyms, a current employer of Hopes, and hes about to make a multi-billion-dollar killing on a weaponized Yellowjacket suit that pilfers Pyms technology.  The stakes are high here, but theyre not as grandiose as they are in most contemporary comic-book-based movies, where the fate of the entire world if not the universe seems to be at stake every time. Yeah, Cross IS a lunatic messing with the sort of atom-manipulation that makes these suits work can mess with your mind, and he does want to make an army of Yellowjackets, and his buyer, represented by the aforementioned Mitchell Carson, is none other than an outfit called HYDRA. But this movie doesnt need to destroy whole cities to get its job done. Savvy, wise-cracking Scott wants to make it in the straight world so he can have more time with his daughter. The fact that his ex-wife now lives with a defensive cop  Bobby Cannavale adds not just emotional dad-rival complications, but some plot twists as well. And after Cross smells some kind of rat in his system its not a rat, incidentally, just a whole bunch of telepathically controlled ants, Scotts lovable knucklehead criminal buddies portrayed in varying shades of hilarity by  Michael Pea, T.I. and  David Dastmalchian are obliged to get in on the action as well.    This is a lot of material for any movie to juggle, and its also competing with a crazy visual-effects element' the different sizes of Ant-Man bring with them different worlds, and his interaction with ants has a crazy pop-art surreality, like a pulp reiteration of Dalis imagery in The Persistence of Memory and other insect-packed artworks. The script is credited to  Edgar Wright and  Joe Cornish, and then to Rudd and  Adam McKay. Wright was originally set to direct, and while Im not one to play pick-the-authorial touches especially after only one viewing, I suspect quite a few of the visual gags in this picture originated with his contributions. In any event, the movie Reed has directed offers a remarkably direct through-line' I kept waiting, in dread, for a flashback explaining how the villain got that way, but it never came' instead, we find out what we need to know via dialogue and action, which is very welcome. Despite the movies buoyancy, it manages to convey Crosss villainy and its gravity with an appropriate tone. Its delightful and almost miraculous the way this movie manages to work as a comic heist picture on a huge scale, and with a comic science-fiction picture blended into itwhile managing to cohere to the whole, you know, Marvel thing. Even the usually dreaded training-montage sequence manages to unfold like a compelling dance number. Part of it has to do with the novelty of the training its not many movies that show its protagonist attempting to leap through a keyhole, or get a group of ants to pile sugar cubes into a cup of tea but its also the character work from Rudd, Lilly and Douglas. Also nifty is the size-matters humor the movie works so deftly and unpredictably theres an iPhone-centered joke in the middle of a ridiculous in a good way climactic action sequence thats devilishly clever. As is customary with Marvel films, Ant-Man has more than one ending more than two, as it happens. My favorite was the second one, which will probably please thinkpiece writers andor Evangeline Lilly fans, so Im sure youll hear about it soon. As for myself, I found myself grinning a bit at the final promise Ant-Man Will Return.  