Psychedelic horror film "Antibirth" is a tough sell for even some ofthe most diehard genre fans. Stylistically, the film is equallyunsettling and evocative:gorgeous cinematography, disorienting editing and frequent use of double exposuresbring to mind the films of  David Lynch,  Rob Zombie,  Ben Wheatley, Bill Lustig and Damon Packard. But on a narrative level,"Antibirth" is populated almost exclusively byobnoxious, irresponsible, andor ugly characters. Anti-heroine Lou  Natasha Lyonne, a scruple-less alcoholic and drug abuser,is the most aggressively unlikable character in the film and she's the film's lead. Still, you don't have to care about Lou as a person to want to knowwhat happens to herafter she blacksout during a night-long bender. "Antibirth"is novel,mysterious, and sometimes even dangerous enough to suck you in if you surrender to its confrontational, avant garde style. Set in a skid row community of druggies, boozers, andmilitary veterans, "Antibirth" sometimes feels like an ungainly combination of"Rosemary's Baby" and " Jacob's Ladder." Lou becomes obsessed with the idea that she's pregnant, though she is certain that she hasn't had sex in months.Sheisdriven almost exclusively by her id.She guzzles tequila, smokes cigarettes, and eats unhealthy snacks with abandon, and rants at best friend Sadie  Chlo Sevigny about what she will do if she's actually pregnant. Lou curses, mooches off of her friends, watches cartoons, and eventuallypushes everyone away. She's not just unlikable: she's often abhorrent. W riterdirector  Danny Perez draws viewers in by emphasizing his characters' scuzzy milieu. Perez, whopreviously worked with psych-rock group Animal Collective on the consummately weird short film "Oddsac,"eschews clich s by cultivating the sinister and surreal character of Lou'slate-night confrontations,bowling alley rants, andleisurelycar rides. Perez's world of iron-pumping drug-dealers, soft-spoken televangelical yogis, and creepypizza parlor mascotsfeelsstrange enough to be worrisome. You're always awareyou're watching a filmmaker's mediated view of life among society's dregs. And that's OK, because you never really know where Perez is going to go next. This movie is peculiar. Itspacing isall-over-the-map. Violence sometimes threatens to break out, but it rarely does in the ways you mightexpect. Sex is creepy, but sometimes gross in a funny way.Secondary characters, like conspiracy theorist and good samaritan Lorna  Meg Tilly, come and go without much consistency. Andwhile protagonistsare often characterized through realistic dialogue lots of cursing,vernacular, and naturalistic pauses, they're justa dream sequence, pot-induced flashback, orsong cue away frombecoming subsumed byelusive dream logic. Oh, and this film is also kinda funny, but never in a laugh-out-loud way. It's icky, mean-spirited and bizarre. AndI left it feeling like I had just seen something new'I wanted more.   Which is weird because, on a basic narrative level,"Antibirth" completelyrubbed me the wrong way. I don't like Lou, and I don't think I'm supposed to. Perez makes sure of that by pushing viewers' buttons with early lines of dialogue like, "I think I'dremember if I had a dick inside me." Still, as the movie goes on, the film's slippery tone becomes a little morepalatable. Lou's constant self-endangerment may have made me feel like a concerned parent, ready to tsk-tsk herevery time she pickedup a bottle or bong. But as the film goes on, you get the sense that Perez is intentionally piling it on for the sake of seeing how far he can go whileluring you in despite yourself. Trippy images of eerie silhouettes andcreatures that look like the love-children of"Teletubbies" and the gremlin from "Nightmare at , Feet" are simultaneously bewitching and disturbing. I've made this review as impressionistic as possible because the main pleasure of watching "Antibirth"comes from questioning your ownsanity as you watch it. How can a movie be so ugly yet sotantalizing? It's very easy to be turned off by Perez's feature debut, but if you can get on its wavelength, you'll find yourself drawn in by one of the year's most originalhorror films. 