If you have fond recollections of s hit sci-fi picture  The Martian, I reckon one of them might be of  Matt Damons jubilant, never-say-die stranded astronaut vowing to survive on Mars and describing the challenge of it as Im gonna have to science the st out of this! The new movie Approaching the Unknown is a sci-fi picture about getting to Mars, as opposed to being stranded there. The movie has a much less panoramic scale than the Ridley-Scott-directed big budget film, and marginally more sciencing-the-st-out-of-things action. It is well-intentioned, conscientious and competent in its filmmaking craft. Mark Strong plays Captain William D. Stanaforth, whos making a solo flight to Mars to begin colonization there. He knows he wont be coming back to Earth, and hes not too concerned about this. Six billion people on Earth cheering me on are also wondering why I do this, he muses in voiceover. Well, he does it because its what he does. Like all astronauts, hes also an advanced scientist, one whos figured out a way to make drinking water out of dirt, and whose spaceship is carrying a reactor thats essential not just to his trip but to the job hes going to do once he lands on the red planet. Following his craft is another spaceship, this one piloted by Sanaa Lathams Capt. Maddox. She is, in the sparse video-screen views of her from Stanaforth's craft, considerably less chill than Strongs character, and her temperament and the tech problems she faces provide the movie with some tense conflict early on. When not trouble-shooting for Maddox from afar, Stanaforth interacts with earthbound colleague and apparent best friend Louis Skinner, an ever-earnest Mission Control archetype played by  Luke Wilson. Approaching the Unknown is the feature debut of writerdirector  Mark Elijah Rosenberg, and while it has the commercial misfortune of following on the heels of a Mars movie that was a much bigger deal, budget-wise, it is clearly influenced by the likes of classics such as  : A Space Odyssey and cult items like  Silent Running"' you dont get the impression of an opportunistic knockoff. Still, the movies observations about life in space cleave to a familiar track. Theres the fending off of loneliness by being spectacularly expert at ones job. Theres the drawing of a connection between space-age technology and good-old-fashioned analog know-how at a crucial point in the mission, which of course goes wobbly in all sorts of ultra-challenging ways as it progresses, Stanaforth takes out a cherished wooden tool box, an inheritance from an ancestor, and in there he finds just the right gadget to fix a problem with the reactor. Eventually things get worse than wobbly, and Stanaforth is faced with the possibility of aborting the mission. Theres only so much in the technical challenge department that he can survive. In the movies flashbacks, we see that Stanaforth's a man unencumbered by conventional family attachments, which makes him kind of a natural in the leaving-Earth-behind-for-good department. On the other hand, his forced-stoic disposition which is portrayed very well by Strong, whos made a pretty solid career out of playing roles in this mode gives him a tunnel vision thats a little disquieting. Faced with the notion of never landing on Mars, Stanaforth muses, I wanna be ripped apart by space. At this point in the movie, the visual allusions to : A Space Odyssey become ever more definite. But Approaching the Unknown ultimately avoids the ultimate trip turn that Kubricks visionary film took. It remains cool, competent, engaging within a narrow realm  but its unknown realm never explodes into anything remarkable.   