Oren Peli is a little obsessed with people going places they dont belong. Whether its the poor travelers in The Chernobyl Diaries or the treacherous journey of TVs  The River, both of which Peli wrote, the filmmaker has an undeniable interest in those who see the well-defined border, cross it, and suffer the consequences. Its somewhat ironic that the series for which Peli will likely always be most associated is about people who never leave their home. In ,  Paranormal Activity not only launched a franchise a SIXTH film called Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension is coming out this year, and Peli has been producer on all of them but essentially spun off another one as Peli tweaked his haunted house formula and produced the  Insidious films as well. Peli is a horror icon and yet, until today, only one film he has ever directed appeared in theaters. Eight years later, through ridiculous post-production delays and reshoots, Area  is finally here, perhaps trying to avoid the appellation of sophomore slump by taking so long to get to theaters and being relatively unceremoniously released in select theaters and on VOD. Nice try. Of course, like Paranormal Activity, most of Area  looks like DIY, found-footage material, although the film so quickly fails the Why Would They Film That test that its best to just consider it a cinematographic choice like Dogme  instead of trying to figure out whos holding the camera and why. To that end, the shaky-cam, found-footage thing likely wasnt as played out when Peli started filming Area  in , and the aesthetic here isnt quite as annoying as it sometimes can be in Paranormal Activity wannabes. You wont need Dramamine. Three dude-bros go to a party' one dude-bro goes missing. He pops up, horror movie-style, in front of the car of his leaving buddies, not quite looking the same. Three months later, the man-children plan a trip to Vegas, where they will meet someone who will help them infiltrate the legendary Area , the Nevada government complex rumored for decades to house proof of alien life. Of course, they need a stop-off at the Hooters Casino first. Before you know it, theyre using night vision cameras and breaking into places they shouldnt be.  Well, not exactly before you know it. Area  is essentially what we call a Slow Burn horror film, in that most of the bulk of the running time consists of preparation. They talk about the titular location way more than anything else. And theres a disturbing amount of prep to do scenes of the boys getting their materials together, scouting the location, dealing with security and eventual knocks on their door in the middle of the night. Theres no tension or action for the longest time and "Area " might have been better served as a short film or episode of an anthology series in that the entire first-hour of set-up could have been cut to five minutes. In one mildly entertaining interlude, the film echoes  Willow Creek a bit when the boys start talking to locals about the alien legend a la the way Bobcat Goldthwait plays with mythology in the first two acts of his bigfoot film, but Peli isnt as skilled a filmmaker and the characters here are so paper-thin that I just watched the movie and Im not sure I could pick them out of a line-up.   Eventually, they get where theyre going and theres lots of whispering Lets keep moving but very little actual threat. When they find a lab with weird blobby things and floating rocks, things start to get more interesting, but thats not until the hour-mark. Sorry, spoiler I guess, but Im not sure if its really a spoiler if its the first interesting thing that happens in a movie. To be fair, the slow burn does eventually catch fire and theres lots of screaming and heavy breathing and dark tunnels and running and what-not. The relatively tense final half-hour is clearly the reason that very smart producer  Jason Blum thought this would be a solid follow-up to Paranormal Activity. Its that first hour that is the reason it took six years to barely get released. 