Automata opens with onscreen text explaining the future   years from now . Solar storms have turned the Earth into a radioactive desert, killing  of the population in the process. As a result, the ROC company created primitive robots to help build the walls and mechanical clouds that protect the humans. There are millions of robots, all of which are controlled by two protocols: they cannot harm any form of life and they can neither repair themselves nor alter another robot in any fashion. These rules are unalterable, the screen says in boldface. Of course, this is not a true statement. Science fiction is often used in allegorical fashion. It may not be fair to judge Automata by this gauge, but the film is so deathly somber and heavy-handed that I can only assume director  Gabe Ibez wanted to tell us Something Important. Your guess is as good as mine as to what that is. The score by Zacaras M. de la Riva features choral voices singing melancholy notes while scenes one cannot take seriously flash before our eyes. The disconnect is akin to having the Harlem Boys Choir score from  Glory paired with a Wayans Brothers movie. No film featuring a sex robot should pretend it has the gravitas level of a Morgan Freeman narration. It should at least be fun, which Automata is most certainly not. More on the sex robot later' shes an integral part of what passes for the plot. Automata begins with  Dylan McDermott discovering a robot violating the second protocol the one about self-repair. McDermott shoots it in the head, damaging the one part of the robot that might explain why it has suddenly violated an unalterable rule. A lot of robots get shot in this movie, and not one of them remotely attempts to violate the first protocol the one about harming people. Ibez takes great pleasure in showing these low-budget, inanimate objects slowly dismembered by gunfire. Hitting their off switches would be just as effective, but Automata needs some kind of action to keep the audience involved. The screenplay is so adamant about shoving in as many sci-fi tropes as possible, it fails to cohere into anything that makes narrative sense. The visuals owe massive debts to  Blade Runner and the Mad Max movies. In addition to unwisely evoking memories of both, Automata throws in a shadowy corporation, an apocalyptic future, dangerous radioactivity, robots who become self-aware, scientific mumbo-jumbo and the end of civilization. Into it all, an insurance adjuster shall lead us. Said adjuster, Jacq Vauchan, is played by a bald, suitably apocalyptic looking Antonio Banderas. Vauchan has grown weary of trudging through hazardous rainfall to deal with customers of ROC. We first meet him as hes investigating a robot accused of murdering the family dog by brushing its fur to death. The robot is innocent. Vauchan decides hes getting too old for this you-know-what.   Vauchan wants to move his pregnant wife, Rachel  Birgitte Hjort Srensen, from the brutal inner city to a beachside resort he keeps seeing in childhood flashbacks. Rachel thinks hes crazy, and so do we once we realize the seaside is far more irradiated. Rachel exists solely to perform damsel-in-distress duty during the climax, where the villains drag her and her newborn baby into an extremely radioactive desert for no logical reason whatsoever. Before that happens, ROC sends Rachels hubby to an expert to determine what caused the robot Wallace shot in the opening scene to gain knowledge of itself. The expert, Dr. Dupre  Melanie Griffith, is skeptical about robots having protocol violating capabilities, despite the fact that she also runs a brothel whose Samp'M robots kinda violate their first protocol. I specialize in pleasure and pain, Cleo the sex robot tells Vauchan before shes implanted with the other robots self-aware chip. She also specializes in driving getaway cars, which comes in handy when two little kids inexplicably shoot Dr. Dupre in the face. As they head deeper into the desert to discover the clocksmith whos retooling the robots minus their second protocol, Cleo becomes Vauchons protector. Armed members of ROC, including McDermott and a game  Robert Forster, follow them with the intent to destroy both the robots and their colleague. More robots get shot, and in the films one true moment of excitement, somebody gets blown away with a flare gun. Despite her newfound intelligence, Cleos appearance shes practically naked and has two large round circles that pass for a booty and her voice provided by Griffith never let us forget her original function. She may be able to repair herself and is smart enough to help build a highly intelligent giant robotic cockroach, but shes still reduced to moaning hilariously when sensing male arousal. Youll be sinking in your seat as a drunk Vauchan contemplates Cleos services. At least the sad choir is wise enough not to sing over this sequence. About that giant, super-evolved robotic cucaracha: I think it may hold the key to Automatas allegory. If nothing else, its where all roads lead. Armed with that detail, you now know if you want to sit through this film. Personally, if I were you, Id bypass it for a double feature of Cherry  and Runaway. Youll get your fill of sex robots and killer robot roaches, with none of the dreary seriousness and overstuffed plot of Automata. The quality will be about the same. 