Christine Lucas  Nicole Kidman wakes up every day thinking that shes  years younger than her actual age. She doesnt recognize the man lying next to her. The -year-old in the mirror doesnt look right. Shes not even sure where she is. Not unlike  Guy Pearces memorable lead in  Memento, Christine has psychogenic amnesia. She was in a car accident over a decade ago. Since that day, she has rebooted after every nights sleep. She doesnt remember anything that happened the day before, and only gets occasional flashes of memory of the past  years. Her husband Ben  Colin Firth has to go through the same routine every morning, helped by photos on the bathroom wall with Post-Its like Ben, Your Husband. Each day, Ben explains Christines predicament to her, as he goes to work and she sits around the house, waiting for the next nights restart button. From the very beginning of Before I Go to Sleep, this premise feels faulty, at best. As directed by  Rowan Joffe  Brighton Rock, the opening scenes make it clear that this is not a film with actual characters or relatable people within it. Theres no exhaustion in Bens voice, as there would be having done this routine every single day. Everything about the moment reeks of manipulative set-up instead of something real, and that feeling that youre being as played with as Christine herself. Before I Go to Sleep is a movie with nothing to hold on to but a paper-thin mystery with really only one of two possible suspects in the end.  As you can guess, theres more to Christines story than Bens initial explanation. After her husband leaves for work, she gets a call from Dr. Nasch  Mark Strong, a neuropsychologist who has been working with her for the past few weeks. He tells her to find the digital camera in the back of her wardrobe. Shes been recording revelations every day, reminding herself of what shes discovered about Ben, her accident and more. She hasnt lost her memory from a car accident. She was brutally attacked. By whom? Why? And what else is Ben keeping from her? How much could you trust someone who you think is a stranger even if he tells you hes not? Of course, every question in a film like this has an answer. Its a screenwriting exercise more than a film. Its hollow, the kind of quick beach read that could satisfy on a summer vacation and was based on such a book but Joffe hasnt justified transitioning it to the big screen. Theres no edge, no pulp, no grit under its fingernails.  Part of the problem is that Joffe seems bored by his own material. Before I Go to Sleep needed to be stylish to play like a classic thriller or edgy to replicate the sense of confusion inherent in Christines situation. Its neither. The film is visually flat, disappointingly shot mostly in boring close-ups as one of the three central actors explains whats happening now. And Joffe and his team try to increase the films intensity with boring, cheap sound design, with multiple occasions of trucks that barely miss Christine as shes crossing the street or quick cuts to a loud, overhead plane. Its supposed to be unsettling. Its just cheap.   Partially by virtue of its piling-up revelations and dual suspect structure only Ben or Dr. Nasch could be the bad guy since theres no one else in the movie that seems to matter, especially not a character named Claire who really could have been named Plot Device, Before I Go to Sleep is a film thats constantly explaining itself to you. Heres what Christine knows now. Heres the latest revelation. Heres how she feels about it. Every scene is designed to push you to a new revelation. Honestly, I longed for just one scene of everyday life in Christines existence to add an ounce of realism to the production. Its a film with no characters. To be fair, the fact that Kidman gets this much honest emotion out of this script is a testament to her skill level. With a lesser actress, the result would be even more disingenuous. She gives it her all. The movie just gives nothing back to her. 