I dont like youbut I love you. So went a jukebox hit of the s, You Really Got A Hold On Me, written by  Smokey Robinson for him and his group the Miracles and memorably covered by  The Beatles. About suffering they were never wrong, the old masters, and so on. The dislike between Thomas and Damien, the teen protagonists of the latest film by French master  Andr Tchin, is plain and real enough. Whether it's masking "love" is ultimately open to question, but what it barely masks is a raw erotic magnetism. Damien  Kacey Mottet Klein is a pale, gangly scholarly type whos got a relatively cushy life in a very scenic mountain village. His dad is away in the army hes a pilot and his doctor mother  Sandrine Kiberlain is a do-gooder around the neighborhood. One way she helps out the community is by inviting Thomas  Corentin Fila, a mixed-race adopted kid from a less privileged family whose mother is ill, to live in the house with her and Damien. Bad move: Thomas and Damien, who despite differing characteristics occupy comparably low rungs on their schools status ladder, have been shoving and kicking and fighting each other most of the winter term at school. Once theyre thrown into the same environment, somethings gotta give. Discovering ones sexuality is a different deal in the st century than it has been in older coming-of-age films. And Tchin, despite being , shows a sharp eye not just for how young people of today dress and accessorize, but how they carry themselves. For this film hes enlisted  Girlhood director  Cline Sciamma as a co-writer, and working with the younger filmmaker certainly must have helped. But this isnt a film that makes a big deal of its contemporary authenticity' it wears its carefully measured elements lightly, the better to shine a light on its intriguing characters. The films scenario freely adapted, according to the credits, from a  French TV movie titled New Wave, written and directed by  Gael Morel, a former protg of Tchins is not free of clich' the second act trauma while I normally hesitate to divide movies up into acts, because cinema isnt theater, this movie invites the practice by explicitly dividing the action between three discrete school terms is relatively predictable given the positions of the players. But by the same token it doesnt resolve predictably. The movie saunters along with a kind of stoic naturalism that makes even the catastrophic events that befall the characters things to be coped with and worked through rather than world-enders. The assured cinematography of Julien Hirsch, using a lot of handheld camerawork but always maintaining firm control of a particular, unobtrusive point of view, contributes to the easy feel. The original score by  Alexis Rault strikes moodily appropriate, lyrical and elegiac notes with discretion, and a repeated song by the late Burkinab musician Victor Dm is beautiful and haunting. Need is part of nature  desire is not of natural origin. It is superfluous. So goes a reading in one of Thomas and Damiens school assignments. The project of Being , which is realized via the accretion of dozens of wonderful details, is to prove that assertion entirely wrong, to celebrate desire as the most natural and necessary thing in our lives.  