Nick Reiner, the -year-old son of director and actor  Rob Reiner, isnt the first rich Hollywood kid to capitalize upon his experiences in rehab in order to enter the family business. Just last year, Zephyr Benson, the -year-old son of s and s heartthrob  Robby Benson  One on One,  Ice Castles, wrote, directed, executive-produced and starred in Straight Outta Tompkins, about a well-off New York high-schooler who goes from recreational drug abuser to hardcore dealer. Father Robby helped out as an executive producer and composed the films score. But the end product was mostly a reflection of the younger Bensons still-in-the-formative-phase talents. But the senior Reiner, whose filmmaking resume includes such durable classics as Stand by Me,  The Princess Bride, When Harry Met Sally  and  A Few Good Men actually directed, produced and helped shape his sons screenplay, which was partially influenced by their own contentious relationship over Nicks numerous failed attempts to stay clean. Interestingly enough, Being Charlie co-written with fellow recovering addict  Matt Elisofon proves to be a kind of career rehab for Dad. His behind-the-camera output has taken a regrettably persistent plunge in quality since the mid-s with such non-starters as Alex amp' Emma, Rumor Has It,  Flipped and  And So It Goes. And about the only reason that the fountain of schmaltz known as  The Bucket List became a hit in ? It had a catchy title as well as first-time co-stars  Jack Nicholson and  Morgan Freeman as polar-opposite buddies on their death beds. Granted, Being Charlie isnt the most original story. We have seen plenty of recalcitrant druggies and alcoholics in group counseling sessions on TV and film before for me, nothing beats  Edie Falcos amazing seven-season swan dive into the nightmare world of pain pill abuse on Showtimes Nurse Jackie. But this dramedy about a troubled child born into privilege who runs away from a remote Utah facility on his th birthday and back to his parents palatial Bel-Air mansion is an emotionally honest turn for the better for papa Reiner. Theres a youthful kick to the dialogue along with a matter-of-fact edginess including nudity, frank sexuality and crude language in what feels like a vicarious portal into private woes that are public knowledge. In this case, Pop Princess Bride alum  Cary Elwes is David Mills, a retired actor turned politician whos in the midst of a campaign for the California governorship. The last thing he needs is for his junkie son Charlie  Nick Robinson of  Jurassic World is to upend his chances to win during the final rounds of glad-handing. He gives this cynical, angry mess of an adolescent a choice: Either enter adult rehab, now that he has come of age, or be tossed out on the street and face charges for his Utah hooliganism.   Neither father nor son is averse to allowing their onscreen alter egos to come off badly. Robinson, whose boyish Sean Astin-like features and physique imagine a sardonic and bitter teenage hobbit provide a nice contrast to such lowlife behavior as stealing Oxycontin from a terminally ill old lady whose son has kindly given him a lift. Meanwhile, dad is a tough-love bully mom, played by  Susan Misner, is the comforting good cop who greets his just-arrived son not with a much-needed hug but with a burly hairy stranger in an ugly Hawaiian shirt, who proceeds to commence with an intervention while spouting such well-worn clichs as, No one said that sobriety is easy. What would be easy is to hate David, but Elwes is able to summon a world of hurt, pain and frustration in the eyes of his character even while sporting a politicians plastic smile. So off Charlie goes into yet another treatment facility. But this one has a seemingly cool girl named Eva  Morgan Saylor to break the monotony, who smokes clove cigarettes and matches him sarcastic comment-for-sarcastic comment. When he whines about being in rehab again, she counters, Where would you like to be? Would you be OK with Iraq, Dafur, New Jersey? He smiles. Maybe not New Jersey. Eventually, they go to separate halfway houses split by gender. Turns out friendships are fine among program participants, but not romance. As a sympathetic counselor hip-hop artist Common explains to Charlie, Getting sober is a selfish thing. You got to help yourself first. Of course, his words will prove all too prophetic when a now-dutiful son still cant catch a break from his dad and resumes his old habits just in time for Election Day. While its not exactly  Trainspotting, Being Charlie strives for authenticity in its main characters ups and downs even if the plot isnt as compelling as the performances. At least the material doesnt shy away from questioning the conventional wisdom behind such programs and suggests that they dont always fit the needs of everyone while profiting from repeat offenders. Also welcome are some original bits of inside-showbiz business that flavor the story. David, best known for a series of pirate films, is constantly pestered by adoring constituents who repeatedly parrot his Yo ho ho catchphrase. One has to wonder how many times former All in the Family star Reiner has been called "Meathead" over the years.   Also offering comic relief is the fact that Charlie is an aspiring stand-up artist who finds inspiration in such old-school joke tellers as Moms Mabley,  George Carlin,  Richard Pryor and Lord Buckley.  Carl Reiner, granddad to Nick, would be proud. Even the fact that one of Charlies rehab cohorts does a mean imitation of Nicholsons rebellious McMurphy in One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest, as a means of survival, provides amusement. Working on Being Charlie probably was a catharsis for Nick Reiner and it clearly has allowed his father to exorcise some of his lazier filmmaking tendencies of late. Like most family affairs, the film isnt perfect but it is memorable, and provides a passable high when it is over one that you havent felt from a Rob Reiner production in ages.  