When he lectured on literature at Cornell University,  Vladimir Nabokov referred to  Jane Austens  novel " Mansfield Park" as a "fairy tale," a term he did not use disparagingly. He also obliquely noted that none of its fairy-tale romantic doings would have been possible were its characters not somewhat affluent, and that the source of the money that affords the characters their modes of living is "cheap slave labor." The observation is a bracing one. But its true that the economic system that guaranteed the incomes of the moneyed characters in Austens world was a criminal one, even if Austen herself remained neutral on the topic. And it is uncomfortable to think that the template for the rom-com was built on...well, do I have to spell it out for you? The new movie "Belle," which claims, like so many such efforts, to be based on actual events, is a novel work in that it takes on a topic not regularly treated in period drama, that is, the necessarily fraught place of a free black woman in proper British society in the late thearly th centuries. Directed by  Amma Asante from a script by  Misan Sagay, "Belle" tells the story of an illegitimate mulatto child, daughter of a Royal Navy man, whos raised in affluence, lavishly educated, and rather condescendingly doted upon by the extended family her father foisted her upon. Once the girl, named Belle by her father but called Dido by her uncle and aunts, reaches adulthood at which point she is incarnated by the lovely and capable young actress  Gugu Mbatha-Raw, her marriage prospects seem...well, unusual. Good thing shes got a guaranteed income, something her white not-exactly-sister Elizabeth  Sarah Gadon does not, for reasons that a thorough reader of Jane Austen novels could probably guess at correctly.  As it happens, Didos uncle Lord Mansfield  Tom Wilkinson is a judge, and in the main part of the films story, hes hearing a case involving a slave ship and the question of whether human beings can be insured like cargo. Dido hears about the case in dribs and drabs, and then in more detail from a neighbor, a passionate vicars son  Sam Reid whos under Lord Mansfields tutelage, at least until they have a violent disagreement on the main issue of the case. Didos consciousness grows, as does her attraction to the vicars son. But at the same time, Didos aunts, played by  Emily Watson and  Penelope Wilton, seek to steer Dido into an engagement with Oliver Ashford James Norton, son of a very scheming grand dame  Miranda Richardson, of course and younger brother to a bug-eyed bigoted quasi-rotter  Tom Felton, who seems not at all concerned by the fact that hes lately being cast as a Draco Malfoy For All Seasons.  The movie is intelligently written and well-acted, but it doesnt sit all that comfortably between the two stools of Austenesque Romance and Socially Conscious Drama. Although director Asante herself is a woman of color her shooting style is as conventional as any veteran director you can, or cant, name. Take the whole opening sequence, for instance, in which a sense of intrigue and drama is putatively built in a series of shots in which no faces are seen, merely feet and ankles taking strides, the backs of heads moving forward, hands opening carriage doors, and so on. All very stock, all very expected, at least if youve seen such montages as many times as I. So while "Belle" is of undeniable interest in some respects, its overall execution restricts it from being as engaging as it wants to be, and as wrenching as perhaps it ought.  