While Beloved Sisters is undeniably conscientious in its attempt to simulate the foment of what Ill call pre-Romanticism in late th-century Germany, and engagingly depict the conditions of life in that time and place, the movie ultimately has the most value as a showcase for two exceptional performers, the young actresses  Henriette Confurius and  Hannah Herzsprung. The pair plays the sisters of the title, Charlotte and Caroline von Lengefeld. At the outset of the movies story, its their condition as daughters rather than sisters thats paramount. Their mother, Louise  Claudia Messner, an aristocratic woman of culture, has maintained her standard of living via a fortuitous marriage for Caroline' she hopes to do similarly well with Charlotte, whos sent to live with an aunt who instructs her in the manners of the Euro-aristocracy before introducing her to a Scottish sea captain. All seems to be moving along smoothly despite Charlottes irreverent nature, which at one point manifests itself in her trading bon-mots with a young poet who happens to be passing her chamber window during an idle moment. This poet is none other than Major German Cultural Figure Fredrich Schiller, and he will soon turn the world of the two sisters, not to mention the mom, on its ear by falling into a romantic entanglement with both Charlotte and Caroline. At almost three hours, Beloved Sisters, written and directed by  Dominik Graf, is a very nearly epic romance, one that approaches the idea of a mnage-a-trois as emblematic of a particular idealism on the part of its participants rather than a hotsy-totsy taboo-busting arrangement. Indeed, the much-bruited mnage never really manifests itself and the last quarter of the picture finds its characters acting out relatively conventional micro-scenarios of jealousy and betrayal. Its all quite handsomely mounted and shot, and while its not really all that engaged by the life of the mind as Schiller  Florian Stetter and his never-seen-in-full father-figurerival Goethe, not to mention Caroline herself apparently, were, the movies not an entirely shabby stab at a historicalcultural chronicle. But, as I mentioned at the outset, its Herzsprung and Confurius who make the movie worth seeing: they give it a pulse. Herzsrpungs Caroline, whos comfortably caged in a loveless marriage of comfortconvenience, has a raging soul and an inchoate writing talent' younger sister Charlotte may in fact be more quick-witted but has allowed herself to be her older sisters subordinate, and once her alliance with Schiller begins, she seems to transfer some of that allegiance to his. She needs love, but she also needs a cause. The two actresses navigate the emotional complexity of their roles with quicksilver intuition and what seems like near-bottomless empathy. They make the sisters full individual creations who are nevertheless inextricably bound to each other with the aim of among other things making it practically impossible for the viewer to choose a side. Its more their doing than Grafs that one believes that Schiller could be entirely in love with both of the women. 