If nothing else, Ben-Hur, directed by  Timur Bekmambetov from a script by  Keith R. Clarke and  John Ridley, is a masterpiece of condensation. The celebrated  version of the saga, once the most-Oscar-winning-picture-of-all-time, clocked in at almost four hours. The silent version was about two hours and twenty minutes, no marathon but still longer than average for its time. This movie, on the other hand, gets the job done in pretty much exactly two hours. The briskness was but one reason I found this quasi-Biblical epic strangely refreshing. This version of the strange novel concocted by Union Army General  Lew Wallace in  a warriors apologia for Christianity that surpassed s previous record holder Uncle Toms Cabin on the best-seller lists begins as Judah Ben-Hur a steely  Jack Huston and his onetime friend Messala  Toby Kebbell are facing off in a chariot race. Talk about beginning on a high note the chariot race of the William Wyler-directed  film, starring  Charlton Heston and  Stephen Boyd, is that movies climax. But fear not, the scene is just a preview, and we flashback, after a few expositional points in narration from  Morgan Freeman who, fear not, is also a character in the picture, to Judah Ben-Hurs noble household in Jerusalem eight years before, and see Judah and his Roman adopted brother Messala note the slight change in relations riding horses together carefree, until an accident places Judah in the care of his friend. Its a bit of a one-set-of-footsteps moment that has a big payoff later on. Wallaces novel was subtitled A Tale of the Christ and this movie was produced by Mark Burnett and  Roma Downey, whove parlayed Burnetts success with reality television into a shingle devoted to making movies with pronounced Christian content. Hence, this Ben-Hur has more Christ in it than any previous version. And a lot of philosophizing in the dialogue. You confuse peace with freedom, one character opines at a certain point' at another the ideal of a civilized world' progress, prosperity, and stability is proffered, which sounds like a setup for a takedown of secular humanism. When first seen, Jesus  Rodrigo Santoro is carving wood, and overhearing a conversation between Judah and his later-to-be-converted wife Esther  Nazanin Boniadi, he gently pipes up, Love your enemies. Love your enemies? Thats very progressive, Judah responds. Soon, when hes stripped of his home and family and enslaved on a galley ship, he will have the opportunity to turn those words over. The characters all speak in a completely contemporary tone, which shows the influence of what do you know? Scorseses  The Last Temptation of Christ, which was criticized for among other things having the Apostles talk like theyd just hopped off the IRT. This is not particularly bothersome, it turns out. In the net plus department, once the action really gets going, its quite good. The sea battle during which Judah makes his escape is a really effective bit of action moviemaking one of those scenes that compels you to exhale when its finally over. Its frantic and loud, but not particularly over-the-top, which is unusual for Bekmambetov. Also unusual is the relatively restrained violence theres a lot of brutal behavior in the picture but its depiction is relatively restrained, another first for its director, whose work in the likes of  Night Watch, Day Watch, and the abysmal  Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter lacked a lot of worthwhile qualities, nuance being one of the bigger ones. I have to credit Burnett and Downey here' clearly they had a commitment to keeping the film as family-friendly as possible. The chariot race, too, is both wholly watchable no bones are crunched, and plenty could have been and coherent. Lead actors Huston and Kebbell both do very credible work, although in Judah Ben-Hurs earliest incarnation Huston does look a bit like  Jimmy Fallon doing Barry Gibb. And at certain of their bro-out moments Huston and Kebbell look like theyd just as likely walk off the set and go check out Sleaford Mods. Does the movie radically re-arrange both its source material and that materials most famous adaptation? It sure as hell does. But I doubt that many contemporary viewers consider either of those as holy writ. This is a Ben-Hur of and for its time, but also a little better than its time, it turns out. Im not qualified to say whether its an effective delivery system for its Christian message, but I think I can credibly pronounce it a good popcorn movie. 