The Christmas-themed home-invasionmovie"Better Watch Out" starts out as one kind of unpleasant, then switches gears to a higher level of unearned nastiness. This isthe kind of lousy horror movie that hinges on a twist that comes about  minutes in: protagonists you thought were innocent are now implicated, leaving viewers with a completely different understanding of their prior behavior and their general nature. I won't tell you more about the twist because it is, realistically, the film's only novelty. But after it has played out, the film runs onthe cheap fumes of "Betcha Didn't See That Coming"shock tactics. If you do, in fact, see it all coming, or if you simplydo not enjoy having characters'malicious behavior rubbed in your face for a solid hour, you'll check out, unless you can convince yourself that stock horror movie characters become interesting simply by virtue of having been turned upside-down.     The movie follows two examples of horror archetypes, pubescent"nice guy" nerds and a " final girl" babysitter, as they are stalked and harassed by mysterious home invaders around Christmas-time. Horndog teens Luke  Levi Miller and Garrett  Ed Oxenbould contemplate losing their virginity behind closed bedroom doors. Luke wants toput the moves on five-years-older sitter Ashley  Olivia DeJonge, who gets left alone with Luke when his pushover dad  Patrick Warburton andcontrol freak mom  Virginia Madsen head out to a party. Luke desperatelytriesto walk Ashley to second base by drinking his parents' booze and awkwardly putting his head on her shoulder. Thankfully, Ashley doesn't have to peel Luke off her leg for long: somebody has slipped into the house while nobody was paying attention. And they have a mask and agun. Simple so far, right?   Well, buckle up, dear reader, because things are not what they seem! The zeal with which writerdirector  Chris Peckover and co-writer  Zack Kahn turn thetables on viewers' understanding of this scenario is obnoxious unto itself. What'sworse is the way that Peckover and Kahn demand that you stay invested in paper-thin characters as they proceed to terrorize each other andor ineffectively strain against victimization. Every possible contrivance is thrown at viewers, from a booby-trapped backyard to a cell phone dropped in a fish tank. The baddiesare always somehow faster and more agile than the good guys, and the victims are only interesting because of the mitigating circumstances that humanize them long enough to make you root for them. We're given no reason to care about these characters, beyond simple "Run away faster!" or "Beat him up!" impulses.    "Better Watch Out" is an infuriating sit becauseit requires you to invest in the programmatic bullying of a certain type of character, then cheer on that same stock type as he or she defies expectations and refuses to be pummeled into oblivion. It's the kind of movie that pushes your buttons at every turn, and casts actors based solely on their ability to play to your snap judgmentsof what they're"really" like off-screen. Peckover and Kahn run with those notions, then letyou fill in the blanks of what their characters are actually like, drawing on decades of other genre films that sold you the same bill of goods: sexual repression bad, token femaleempowerment good. When the film ends,we've been traded one set of unchallenging cliches for another.   