I  know I am part of an infinitesimal minority, but I wish Hollywood would  consider a one-year moratorium on superhero films. Between all the  origin stories, the sequels, the spinoffs, the spoofs and the too-soon  reboots, I have had my fill of  big-name actors in ridiculous outfits allowing their stunt doubles or digital stand-ins to save the world.  When  even a  Denzel Washington action flick like  The Equalizer plays like a  start-up entry in a comic-book franchise, matters are getting out of  hand. Of  course, such a break in the crash-boom action would at this point  probably cause the ruination of the movie business as we know it. No  less than  new titles are slated for the next six years. Studios might be forced to come up with  some fresh ideas that arent already known quantities pre-packaged as a  brand. That is, once they run out of YA novels to adapt for the screen. Which  is why I was chagrined to learn that Disney, which has been nicely  re-establishing itself as animation powerhouse beyond its Pixar label  after the success of  Wreck-It Ralph and  Frozen, was digging into the  Marvel vault for toon-worthy material. As a result, my expectations were low for  Big Hero ,  based on an obscure comic book with a Japanese manga sensibility that  introduces yet another makeshift gang of warriors. In other words, the  dreaded origin story.  Much to my surprise, it didnt take long to warm to this tale set in  the gleaming near-futuristic metropolis known as San Fransokyo where  trolley cars and an Asian-infused Golden Gate Bridge happily co-exist  with dumpling emporiums and Tokyo-inspired skyscrapers. And how could I  resist when, early on, a kick-ass gal is heard commanding a guy to Stop  whining! Woman up!  I also was taken from the outset by the -year-old  hero  actually named Hiro engagingly voiced by  Ryan Potter, an overly cocky  punk who already has his high-school diploma. He is right on trend  with other troubled misfit geniuses in films this fall including those  in The Imitation Game and The Theory of Everything. Initially, the  scrawny lad invests his smarts into winning back-alley robot fights with  deceptively simple electronic toys of his own design.  But  after Hiro has a brush with the law, older brother Tadashi Daniel  Henney invites him to check out his colleges robotics lab with  thoughts of enrolling. There he meets an A-team of tech specialists:  adrenaline junkie Go Go Tomago  Jamie Chung, the source of the above  Woman up! remark' upbeat chemistry whiz Honey Lemon Genesis  Rodriguez' cautious neat-freak Wasabi  Damon Wayans Jr.' and fanboy  sidekick Fred, a sort of nerd answer Scooby-Doo pal Shaggy T.J. Miller  of TVs "Silicon Valley," whose humorous asides fall flat as often as they  tickle.    Thanks  to a nifty science project involving microbots, Hiro is accepted at the  school. Then tragedy strikes after a fire traps and kills both Tadashi  and Prof. Callaghan  James Cromwell, who was going to be Hiros  mentor. With no parents and his brother gone, Hiro retreats into his  bedroom in the apartment above a coffee shop run by his worrywart Aunt  Cass  Maya Rudolph.   Big Hero  truly achieves liftoff, however, when Hiro happens upon Baymax, Tadashis invention, who is the perfect fill-in as a big brother. A really big  brother who is so viscerally huggable, you can practically squish him  with your eyes. Imagine a white -foot-tall inflatable robot programmed  to tend to the sick who is a cross between the Michelin Man, the Stay  Puft marshmallow character from  Ghostbusters and a futon mattress. A  calm in any storm, Baymax is dedicated to easing pain of all sorts and  certainly performs that function for a grieving Hiro. He also has a  great sense of physical humor not unlike such plus-size comics as John  Candy and  John Belushi as he gingerly squeezes in and out of tight spots  or stumbles about as if drunk when his battery is low. Even his attempt  at a fist bump is an ingenious running gag. However,  there is the rest of the plot to deal with and, if you havent  guessed, Hiro along with a soon souped-up Baymax and the four lab  geeks form a crew of avengers. Their mission is to seek a mysterious  Kabuki-mask-wearing baddie suspected of setting the inferno as well as  stealing Hiros invention. There are sundry loud action sequences but  none are as thrilling as the sight of Hiro and a now-aerodynamic Baymax  forming a bond similar to that of Hiccup and Toothless in "How to Train  Your Dragon" as they soar hither and yon above the urban sprawl.  Big Hero   becomes increasingly more predictable in its final half hour as it  makes a few stabs at a surprise twist or two. This is no The  Incredibles, Pixars dysfunctional-family version of a superhero saga,  when it comes to originality. Baymax is great but hes no Edna Mode.  But  Big Hero   deserves praise for promoting an anti-violence message amid mayhem thatsave for the firedoesnt physically maim anyone nor involve guns  or traditional weapons. An action adventure that puts brain ahead of  brawn as a valued commodity is always reason to celebrate. Add in the  considerable heart that Baymax contributes with elements borrowed from  both WALL-E and  Up, and you have a winner.  Stay  until the very end of the credits if you want to see a reveal about  Freds parentage. And resist dawdling at the concession stand before  being seated because you dont want to miss a second of Feast. This  stylized short shot from an ankle-level point of view condenses  years  in the life of a voracious Boston terrier named Winston. In between  greedily gobbling his way through a smorgasbord of table scraps--spaghetti, nachos and pizza--the chow hound manages to stop devouring  long enough to play Cupid for his owner. A sprig of parsley never  seemed so romantic.However,  as a dog owner myself, I am hoping Feast doesnt end up encouraging  children or adults to start feeding their own pets such  not-good-for-them food as saucy meatballs. Because I doubt that Disney  will agree to pick up any resulting cleaning bills.  