This is a modestly-scaled and exceptionally crafted independent film that is genuinely invested in its characters. Indeed, the writerdirector  Bryan Reisberg is sufficiently talented and observant that you cannot fail to be convinced that the young people he depicts truly represent the class with which his film is concerned. They do not go to college to acquire culture, but to get a job, and when they have got one, as protagonist Craig  Harry Lloyd does, in advertising apparently, they scamp it. They have no manners, and are woefully unable to deal with any social predicament. Their idea of celebration is to go to a strangers house and drink probably way more than six beers. They will pick up cell phones that dont belong to them and initiate conversations with the stranger calling. They are scum.  Okay. Ill stop. Perhaps some of you will recognize the above as a pastiche of W. Somerset Maughams famous review of Kingsley Amis groundbreaking s novel Lucky Jim. While this bit of frippery on my part may be useful in explaining my curmudgeonly attitude, as a reviewer of a certain age, toward a film about a twenty-something dude trying to find himself, its also unfair. Not to Big Significant Things, but to both Maugham and Lucky Jim. Lucky Jim, after all, is a comic masterpiece. And Big Significant Things, which has more in common with a more recent and largely lesser novel called Indecision, is not. The movie begins in Oxford Mississippi announced in an attractive splashy postcard-like graphic, as are the other locations of the film at the site of the Worlds Largest Cedar Bucket. An African-American young fellow is sitting near it, and in ambles Craig, who asks him to take a picture of him standing in front of the barrel, and peppers the kids with questions. Its a barrel, the kid finally says, exasperated. By the end of the movie, one is apt to share his exasperation with Craig. And the movies less than an hour and a half long. Harry Lloyd looks a little like a very young Anthony Perkins, and sometimes hell cock his head in a way that Norman Bates did when he felt a low-level social stress coming on. But Craig, while hes engaged in all manner of deceit, never resorts to Normans extremes. Hes supposed to be in San Francisco, helping his future wife buy a place of residence. Instead, hes ditched his old job a week early and embarked on a road trip in the American South, visiting sites that advertises themselves as homes of the worlds largest largely impractical objects. Giant cedar barrel, giant rocking chair, etc. As he explores cheap motels, catatonically listens to his car radio, makes cell phone calls to his best male friend unsuccessfully trying to inveigle him into meeting up somewhere, we are meant to find an affinity with his restlessness. Craigs a fellow who seems to have it made, but hes obviously feeling trapped, and wants to run away. But hes not sure of that, either.  He begins to lose whatever sympathy hes garnered when hes on the phone lying to his teeth to his affianced, and then making passive-aggressive advances to a free spirit girl from Norway which he will subsequently spoiler alert decline to seal the deal on, as the current parlance would have it. When he gets pissy with his girlfriend for making an offer on a house without consulting him, she responds, For the record, you could have been here, but youre not.  Conflicted male masculinity in American has certainly gotten a lot more wussified since  Jack Nicholson portrayed it in  Five Easy Pieces, thats for sure. Bobby Dupea was in many respects a thoroughly deplorable character, but he sure as hell wasnt wishy-washy. Craig is, and wishy-washy looks particularly bad on a lying weasel, which he also is. Theres a slight sense that Reisbergs aware of this: even the people with whom Craig ostensibly gets along with on his journey tend to give him a fair amount of side-eye. But honestly, I think Ive had enough of American Male Existential Crisis in film, period. Unless youre as good as Antonioni who, we should recall, treated anxiety in BOTH GENDERS over the course of his career you really shouldnt bother. Or heres an idea if youre gonna make a film about an American Male In Existential Crisis, you ought to, in good faith, pledge your production troth to make two female-directed pictures about American Girls or Women or what have you. Lets get a little variety going in this mofo, shall we?   .