When I was a girl and we drove past the coal mines it seemed like a storybook to me, the lead character of Big Stone Gap, rather amusingly named Ave Maria Mulligan, says at the beginning of this movie, written and directed by  Adriana Trigiani and based on her popular novel of the same name. The movies title is also the name of the small town in Virginia it depicts and was apparently shot in. Life was simple there, Ave Maria tells us, and we can believe it. Ave Maria, played by  Ashley Judd, relates to the viewer that in , the year she turned , she was the official town spinster of Big Stone Gap. Although for the first twenty minutes or so, one gets the impression she doesnt seem to mind much. Shes the director of the towns annual theatrical production of The Trail Of The Lonesome Pine and rehearsals are going well and the show is close to selling out. She is capable of flirting productively with the towns best looking eligible bachelor Jack  Patrick Wilson and has solid friendships with other fellows in the town, including theater cohort Theodore  John Benjamin Hickey. She has nifty female pals played by  Whoopi Goldberg and  Jenna Elfman. Shes friend to the local outcast young woman Pearl. She lives in a big old house with her wonderful, Italian-accented mom. Who, alas, dies in the aforementioned first twenty minutes. No one worries about you like your mother, Ave Maria says in voiceover. You cant turn to her anymore and it changes your life forever. Aint it the truth. Also changing Ave Marias life: the revelation of a family secret, the threats of a nasty quasi-in-law, and the prospect of Jacks marriage to a local hotsy-totsy whos such a hotsy-totsy that she actually goes by the name Sweet Sue  Jane Krakowski. And turning the whole towns head is the prospect of a visit from a senatorial candidate named John Warner and his movie star wife  Elizabeth Taylor. And yes, this event is a historical fact, and a somewhat notorious one, as the movie shows, or as you can find out via a computer search engine. The movie ambles along amiably enough for a while' its better if you are a fan of one or more members of the cast. Judd brings her Where The Heart Is A Time To Kill A-game to the proceedings, Goldberg doesnt overdo her friendly comedy relief, Elfman is bubbly, Krakowski dry, Wilson handsome.  Jasmine Guy turns up, looking rather remarkably like  Ruby Dee. The movie puts its foot in a big pile of goofy when the character of Elizabeth Taylor makes herself known as a bouffy wig on actress  Dagmara Dominczyk, always shot from behind. This coincides with a ramping up of the movies romantic comedy content, and if you are not on board by this time, you might find yourself nodding in vigorous, non-ironic agreement with Goldbergs character at the point when she observes, This is the dumbest wedding Ive ever seen. 