The first time we see  Michael Keaton in his tighty-whities in Birdman, its from behind. His character, a formerly high-flying movie star, is sitting in the lotus position in his dressing room of a historic Broadway theatre, only hes levitating above the ground. Bathed in sunlight streaming in from an open window, he looks peaceful. But a voice inside his head is growling, grumbling, gnawing at him grotesquely about matters both large and small. The next time we see Keaton in his tighty-whities in Birdman, hes dashing frantically through Times Square at night, having accidentally locked himself out of that same theatre in the middle of a performance of a  Raymond Carver production that he stars in, wrote and directed. Hes swimming upstream through a river of gawking tourists, autograph seekers, food carts and street performers. But despite the chaos that surrounds him, he seems purposeful, driven andfor the first timeoddly content.  These are the extremes that director Alejandro G. Inarritu navigates with audacious ambition and spectacular skill in Birdmanthe full title of which is Birdman or The Unexpected Virtue of Ignorance. Hes made a film thats both technically astounding yet emotionally rich, intimate yet enormous, biting yet warm, satirical yet sweet. Its also the first time that Inarritu, the director of ponderous downers like  Babel and  Biutiful, actually seems to be having some fun. Make that a ton of fun. Birdman is a complete blast from start to finish. The gimmick hereand its a doozy, and it works beautifullyis that Inarritu has created the sensation that you are watching a two-hour film shot all in one take. Working with the brilliant and inventive cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki who won an Oscar this year for shooting  Gravity for Inarritus close friend and fellow Mexican director  Alfonso Cuaron, Inarritu has constructed the most delicate and dazzling high-wire act. And indeed, before shooting began, the director sent his cast a photo of Philippe Petit walking a tightrope between the World Trade Center towers as inspiration. Through impossibly long, intricately choreographed tracking shots, the camera swoops through narrow corridors, up and down tight stairways and into crowded streets. It comes in close for quiet conversations and soars between skyscrapers for magical-realism flights of fancy. A percussive and propulsive score from Antonio Sanchez, heavy on drums and cymbals, maintains a jazzy, edgy vibe throughout. Sure, you can look closely to find where the cuts probably happened, but that takes much of the enjoyment out of it. Succumbing to the thrill of the experience is the whole point. Just as thrilling is the tour-de-force performance from Keaton in the role of a lifetime as Riggan Thompson, a washed-up actor trying to regain the former glory he achieved as the winged action hero Birdman. The film follows the fraught early going of his Broadway debut which is also his last shot at greatnessalthough his on-screen alter ego doesnt help much by voicing his fears and making him doubt himself incessantly. Yes, its knowingly amusing that Keaton, who peaked -plus years ago as a superhero, is playing an actor who peaked -plus years ago as a superhero. Although Id happily argue that Keatons Batman for  Tim Burton in  is THE definitive performance of the iconic characterbut thats a whole nother conversation for another time.   Or is it? While Birdman exists in its own meticulously realized world, its very much of this time and place from a pop-culture perspective, with references to other real-life actors like  Robert Downey Jr. and  Michael Fassbender whove enjoyed enormous success when theyve donned the superhero duds. The script from Inarritu,  Nicolas Giacobone, Alexander Dinelaris and  Armando Bo is cleverly meta without being too cutesy and self-satisfied.  Keaton gets to toy with his persona a bitas well as acknowledge how comparatively quiet his career has been in recent yearsbut seeing him in seasoned form provides its own joy. Hes still hyper-verbal and playful and he can still be amusing and lacerating in his delivery, but theres a wry wistfulness and even a desperation in the mix now thats achingly poignant.  Also confronting his real-life reputation is  Edward Norton as Mike Shiner, the brilliant but infamously capricious actor who steps in as Riggans co-star just as previews are about to begin on his labor-of-love production of What We Talk About When We Talk About Love. Norton, whos come with the baggage of being difficult and demanding over the years, finds just the right balance between arrogance and sincerity.  Besides, they need each other, as they find in the days leading up to opening night. They all need each other. Inarritu has amassed a tremendous supporting cast and made ridiculous technical demands of them, yet theyve all more than risen to the occasion and relished the chance to shine.  Zach Galifianakis plays strongly against type as Riggans manager and the rare voice of reason in the middle of all this madness. Emma Stone is adorable as Riggans world-weary, wise-ass daughter who also serves as his assistant. She and Norton have crackling chemistry in a couple of crucial scenes.  Amy Ryan does wonders with her brief screen time as Riggans ex-wife' she fleshes him out and allows us to see both the selfish and the good in him. And  Naomi Watts, who starred in Inarritus wrenching   Grams, gets to play both light and heavy moments as a neurotic fellow cast member. Its powerfully clear that they all worked their asses of to make this complicated thrill ride look effortless. The result is one of the best times youll have at the movies this yearwhich might even be the best movie this year.   