Bitch has a bark thats far worse than its bite.  Its an ambitious film, to be sure, one that aims to address the familiar phenomenon of domestic malaise through a bold allegory: An overworked, underappreciated wife and mother snaps one day and starts acting like a ferocious dog. She runs around naked on all fours in the basement, growling at the kids, scratching at the walls, covered in her own feces. Its like a surreal, extreme version of  Bad Moms.  But as director, writer and star,  Marianna Palka has trouble balancing dark comedy with dire melodrama. She certainly gives it her all in front of the camera with a fearless physical performance, as evidenced by the films opening scene in which her character attempts suicide by hanging herself from the dining room chandelier with one of her husbands belts. Behind the camera, though, Palka struggles to find the right tone, especially given that shes trying to blend so many wildly different and difficult kinds of movie at once. Shes come up with an intriguing premise, but doesnt quite have the nuance or the storytelling chops to offer an insightful satire.   Thinly drawn characters make baffling decisions, their every move punctuated by a obtrusive score thats either edgy and jazzy or jaunty and wacky. Bitch veers between slapsticky comedy and weepy drama before taking a sharp turn in the third act when it finally becomes clear to everyone that Palkas disturbed character, Jill, is in need of serious medical help, forcing a custody battle between Jills husband and her sister and parents.  By then, though, the films central metaphor has long since worn out its welcome.  It begins on an ordinary day in a comfortable neighborhood of Los Angeles, with the intermittent sound of barking dogs piercing the suburban quiet in a rare subtle touch. Soon after Jills failed suicide effort, we meet the people responsible for her despondency: Her selfish husband, Bill  Jason Ritter, a philandering workaholic, and her four noisy, demanding kids. Only the eldest, Tiffany  Brighton Sharbino, has any clue that the family matriarch is depressed and deeply shaken.  Once Jill disappears and re-emerges in her canine state  leaving a trail of scattered food, urine and feces in her wake  Bill and the kids struggle to fend for themselves. Palka the filmmaker takes this to unbelievable extremes for the sake of sour laughs, including Bills ignorance as to where his children attend school or that they need little things like lunch, for example. But the reaction from the kids the youngest of whom, Cindy  Kingston Foster, is in kindergarten to their mothers departure from reality is bizarre. They giggle about it as if its a game.  Ritter also plays it broadly, which I suppose is an attempt at skewering the patriarchy for its uselessness. But whats happened here is a serious psychotic break. Jills doctor and the police officers who stop by the house to check on her well being are right to suggest shes , the California Welfare and Institutions Code for someone whos a danger to themselves or others. Bill reacts by swilling vodka straight from the bottle in the shower before dropping his wedding band down the drain. In theory, Palka wants us to laugh at the absurdity of it all, but Bitch increasingly leaves a foul taste.     Abruptly, though, the film takes a turn from all that bitterness when Bill finds he must fight Jills sister  Jaime King and her parents for the right to care for her. After trying to challenge us for so long, it suddenly grinds to a halt and goes nice. Lost in all this, of course, is what Jill wants for herself. Theoretically, its to be seen, heard and loved. But Palka is off-screen for large chunks of time  and when we do see her, shes either obscured by partial darkness or shot in extreme facial close-ups  so its hard to have a grasp of what Jill is going through beyond the superficiality of this gimmicky device.  Ultimately, Bitch ends up being about a mans emotional evolution rather than a womans physical one. And that is a bitch after all. 