S. Craig Zahlers debut genre-jumper Bone Tomahawk is a surprisingly sturdy Western a piece with obvious nods to  John Ford built around a quartet of travelers on a rescue mission until it takes a sharp left turn and becomes something closer to horror. These kind of genre mash-ups rarely work, which makes the impact of Bone Tomahawk that much more impressive. In fact, its indicative of how little studios think of the Western that such a solid piece of work with such a strong cast is being barely released in theaters, while also making its VOD release today. The once-thriving genre has become the stuff of independent cinema in films like  The Salvation,  Slow West, The Keeping Room, and, now, Zahlers debut. In terms of the overall quality of this quartet of films, that may not be a bad thing. We could be in the middle of an independent film Western renaissance. This is why frontier life is so difficult. Not because of the Indians or the elements, but because of the idiots. Like most Westerns, Bone Tomahawk hinges on a number of questionable decisions. The first comes when Sheriff Franklin Hunt Kurt Russell, sporting one of the best mustaches in the history of the genre shoots a wanderer who calls himself Buddy  David Arquette in the local saloon. Hunts Deputy Sheriff Chicory  Richard Jenkins noted that Buddy had been acting suspicious, and caught him burying some likely bushwhacked belongings under a tree. Still, they cant just let Buddy suffer, so a doctor named Samantha ODwyer  Lili Simmons is called in to help, brought to the station by another traveler named John Brooder  Matthew Fox. She notices Buddy has a fever, and volunteers to stay at the station to monitor his status, even though her husband Arthur  Patrick Wilson protests.  That night, Samantha is kidnapped by a group of savages. Despite an injured leg that hes looking more likely to lose to gangrene every day, Arthur demands to be a part of the rescue mission for his wife. ODwyer, Hunt, Brooder, and Chicory hit the trail, and the majority of Bone Tomahawk consists of this vibrantly drawn quartet traveling across the barren landscape. Zahler, who also wrote the film, doesnt overplay the archetypes, but allows each character to have his own space. Perfect casting helps: Russell has the weathered confidence that someone like  Sam Elliott has been exuding for decades now, Fox does his best film work in a long time as a man defiantly proud of how many Indians hes killed, Jenkins brings history to the kindly old man role and Wilson is convincing as a man who refuses to let his infirmity stop him. While the casting agent deserves special citation for putting this posse together bonus points for  Sid Haig and  Fred Melamed in cameo roles, its Zahlers confident screenwriting and direction that make it work. His pacing can be a bit self-indulgent the piece is way too long at  minutes, but much of the dialogue is witty without being forcefully so. Weve seen so many self-aware Westerns, films that sound written by film school students more than of the time. Zahlers script is clever and tight, and his direction sturdy throughout, although some may be turned off by the intensity of the final act, which includes a man being scalped alive and literally torn in half.    Personally, I like that Bone Tomahawk is willing to get as intense as it does in the final act, not merely throwing around words like "savages" to describe a race of people, but actually presenting brutally violent, nearly supernatural cannibals as its villains. While the genre jump from John Ford to  Eli Roth may be off-putting to some, it raises the stakes on a climax in a way that most Westerns fail to do. Zahler and his talented cast are willing to take this journey deep into the heart of darkness, and its their commitment that makes the entire project more than skin-deep. 