Last time on  Boo! A Madea Halloween, Madea  Tyler Perry and her elderly cohorts Aunt Bam  Cassi Davis, Hattie  Patrice Lovely and Joe Tyler Perry matched wits with a bunch of trifling frat boys and the disrespectful high school senior girls who were trying to crash the frats Halloween party. The trailer promised comic scares but the movie provided none' it tipped its hand early to let us know that all of the supernatural happenings were pranks on Madeas crew. Madea got her revenge by trapping the frat boys in a prison bus with big, burly prisoners just itching to sexually assault them. There was some moralizing in there somewhere, too, which is par for the course here in Tyler Perry land.   Your humble reviewer covered the prior film, and my biggest problem with it was that I had sincerely hoped to see Madea match wits with the actual monsters and killers from horror movies. After all, broad comedy and horror can yield entertaining features like Abbott and Costello Meet Frankenstein. If Madea were here right now, shed scold me and tell me I should be careful what I wish fuhrrr. Because her creator has now blessed us with Tyler Perrys Boo ! A Madea Halloween, which adds more blatant horror elements into the mix. This time, its possible that the guy chasing Joe with a chainsaw might actually want to butcher him.  But Im getting ahead of myself here. The first thing I should address is that damn title. Tyler PerrysBoo ! A Madea Halloween is not only unwieldy, its such a missed opportunity. I know Mr. Perry has seen Breakin : Electric Boogaloo, the film that contains the greatest subtitle every slapped on a movie. Had he named this film Boo : Electric Boogaloo, I would have given it four stars sight unseen. But Perrys problems with sequel titles goes back to Why Did I Get Married, Too? You may think that kvetching about a title is a petty affair, but it can be the difference between box office success and failure. Just ask The Hudsucker Proxy.  Of course, Madea doesnt have to worry about bad box office. She has a built-in audience of the faithful and faith-filled who will pack the seats on opening weekend. They will sit through all  minutes of Boo ! not once demanding that Perry present them with something new or innovative. And thats the problem. This is Madeas tenth appearance in films, and no matter what the topic, she exists in a cinematic universe filled with numerous scenes of her just sitting there arguing with her people in a room. Granted, those scenes can be amusing, but youd expect some visual potency by now from a man who has  directorial credits on imDB. Dont get me wrong: Nobody is expecting Citizen Kane here. But would it hurt to make the film look presentable?     But I digress. Youre going to Madeas house to laugh, forget your troubles and perhaps get a good Christian message. To Perrys credit, he does a far better job of folding that message into the film than usual. Before we get there, however, we must contend once again with Madeas niece, Tiffany  Diamond White, who, as in Boo , wants to attend a Halloween frat party. This time, she gets permission from her mother, Debrah Taja V. Simpson. Tiffany is  and should be trusted more than her father Brian Tyler Perry allows. Tiffany walks all over Brian, and hes such a wimp that its solely by the grace of God that Tiffany isnt in Juvie Hall for murder. Brian is so out-of-touch that he has a petting zoo at Tiffanys th birthday party.  Events in the first film caused a moratorium on frat house parties, so the frat decides to have their shindig at Camp Crystal Lake, or whatever Perry calls his haunted vista. Like in  Friday the th , sex-obsessed camp counselors were butchered at this camp, leading to rumors that it not only may be haunted, but that one of the serial killers may still reside up there. Its the perfect spot for a scary party, nest-ce pas? Tiffany cant wait to get up there to fool around with frat brothers who look old enough to be her father. One of the bros is supposed to be  but has a thick, full beard I cant grow at .  When Madea gets wind that Tiffany is using Debrah to defy Brians order to skip the party, she and her crew spring into action. Unfortunately for Madea and for the partygoers something spooky awaits them. As soon as they get to the camp, they encounter a batch of ghouls with murder in mind. Theres a guy with a gas mask and a chainsaw, another guy with an ax and that hairy little girl from  The Ring. Unlike last time, the killers are definitely not fraternity pranksters. They appear to have supernatural powers and the victims who cant outrun them leave behind bloodstains.     I liked how Perry took some inspiration for the murderers attire from s slasher films like The Prowler. I also liked that the final reveal of the killers identities made as little sense as it did in the slashers. Boo ! could have benefited from better scenes of stalk-and-escape, but we are treated to several mildly amusing moments of Madea and crew reacting with fright at whatever befalls them. Since we dont know how on the level these terrors are, Boo ! comes off as more of Halloween-worthy than its predecessor. And yet, when Madea finally decides to kick some ass, the movie deprives us of just how wonderful that might have been.  Perrys best scene as Madea is the funniest one in all of his films. While at a police station to report the creepy goings-on, Madea notices that she has a wanted poster on the wall. It looks like the one from Madea Goes to Jail. Madea tries to act inconspicuous so as not to draw attention, but she cant help but be giddy about her reputation. She giggles like a schoolgirl over the youthful picture they used, and when Hattie points out that Madea is wanted for check fraud, Madea draws her attention to the litany of other crimes shes wanted for on the poster. I laughed out loud before I realized this scene is the Tyler Perry universe in microcosm. These movies make a lot of money and are cheap and easy to make. Like Madea, Perrys getting away with attempted murder. I cant knock his hustle. I just pray Im not living in a fools paradise hoping hell make some kind of masterpiece to show us critics how wrong weve been. 