"Brick Mansions" in an English-language remake of the French action thriller "District B," which came out in the United States in . The  Luc Besson production wasnt exactly a huge hit here it only made about . million at the box office that summer but it was a critical smash and became a cult favorite. More importantly, "District B" is probably best remembered for introducing the dazzlingly acrobatic practice of parkour to a larger audience. "Brick Mansions" is nearly identical to the gritty, stylish original, down to character names and plot points, small details and big chase scenes. But it will be remembered as the last film  Paul Walker completed before his death in a November  car crash. Walker already had begun shooting the seventh movie in the "Fast and Furious" franchise, which is now scheduled for release in . In retrospect, "Brick Mansions" is a great example of what Walker did best all along. Once again, he serves as the strong, stoic center in a sea of larger-than-life villains and weirdoes a thankless job, and one thats easy to underestimate. But clearly he recognized that was his strength: to use his California-surfer good looks, quiet calm and strong physicality to project the image of an appealing and reliable action hero. "Brick Mansions" affords him a bit more range than hed enjoyed in his previous films he gets to be funny, kinda, as one half of a mismatched buddy duo but its also the most physically demanding movie of his career. If Walkers demise at the height of his powers at just  years of age draws in more viewers to this sufficiently entertaining action flick, so be it. Its both a celebration of his talents and a bittersweet hint of the further talents he might have revealed. Walker stars as Damien Collier, an undercover police detective in a dystopian, futuristic Detroit. Otherwise known as: next week. I kid! City officials have built giant walls around dilapidated housing projects known as Brick Mansions, hoping to keep the grime and crime in a single, self-contained place. Damien must team up with a longtime resident of the projects, Lino  David Belle, reprising his role from the original and making his English-language debut, to take down the drug kingpin who rules these buildings: Tremaine Alexander Wu-Tang Clans RZA. Each man has a score to settle with Tremaine, who is clearly evil because he dresses expensively and spends his afternoons finely chopping vegetables with a giant cleaver for the gourmet meals he creates. As an actor, RZA is a great rapper. Tremaine has a minor army of heavily armed goons at the ready to protect him or take a bullet if they cross him. Later, he will reveal some seriously over-the-top firepower. At the films start, the heavily-accented, do-gooder Lino must escape some of Tremaines thugs after stealing a massive stash of his cocaine and dumping it down a bathtub. This thrilling opening sequence is pretty much a shot-for-shot remake of the first set piece of "District B," and it allows the ripped, shirtless Bell who co-founded the parkour movement to show off his gravity-defying skills. He leaps over bad guys, through windows, down stairwells and across alleys. But this time, the climactic act of making a massive jump from one rooftop to another is even more difficult because Lino must flee the fiery blast from a grenade thats been tossed his way.   Murrica, we like when stuff blows up. Naturally Damien and Lino clash, physically and verbally, when they first meet. Their wisecracking banter is sporadically amusing but usually cringe-inducing. You can credit or blame Besson for the screenplay. Soon, each recognizes that the other is his equal, and that they have a common enemy. As is so often the case in these kinds of movies, Damien insists that Tremaine is the "one last scumbag" hell go after before quitting his dangerous gig. And given the way Walkers life ended, some of the situations his character puts himself in while trying to clean up the city are just chilling. Damien hangs from the back of a speeding car, climbs onto the roof of a police van which he eventually crashes at  mph and takes the wheel of a souped-up Mustang to avoid Tremaines posse. Being the auto aficionado that he was, Walker probably felt extremely comfortable shooting these scenes, but its uncomfortable for us as viewers to watch them now. But director  Camille Delamarre, a longtime editor on Besson productions making his directing debut, doesnt want you thinking too much or feeling too deeply. He wants to wow you to a thumping techno beat, and he achieves that for the most part in his elaborately choreographed if overly-edited set pieces and chases. Theres also some obligatory girl-on-girl fighting action between Linos kidnapped girlfriend  Catalina Denis, a saucy waitress in a barely-there uniform, and Tremaines sadistic henchwoman a fierce  Ayisha Issa, who likes to prowl around the projects in a black-leather bustier, fishnets and knee-high boots. You know, for comfort on those hot summer days. The action may be serious, but "Brick Mansions" doesnt take itself too seriously. Its a ridiculous movie that has the decency to acknowledge that its ridiculous. 