Food porn, no matter how expertly and attractively presented, is no substitute for actual food. But if you are susceptible to the blandishments of food porn, Burnt, a new Bradley-Cooper-starring drama about a brilliant-but-troubled chef looking for a shot at redemption, might leave you hungry for a meal youll possibly be hard-pressed to afford. Money-wise, and maybe existentially. Heavy on beautifully-lit tight shots of blue burner flames, immaculate china plates, various foams, glazes, char marks, roots, zests, and all other manner of mouth-watering visuals for discriminating gourmands the consultant on kitchen matters was pioneering chef Mario Batali, a bonafide kitchen genius, Burnt concentrates on the fashionable high-end of gastronomy. Coopers character, Adam Jones recounts in voice-over that hes been doing penance for unspecified sins by shucking oysters in New Orleans  and, once hes gotten to one million, boom, suddenly hes in London, making snide comments to hotel restaurant matre d'  Daniel Brhl about the mediocre quality of his fare. Adam isnt just in-person trolling fancy joints in this big, youll excuse the word, foodie town. No, Brhls Tony shares a past with Adam. Although Londons a big town, the fact that Adam cant turn a corner without running into someone from his past makes the place seem like one of the backstage areas depicted in the recent  Steve Jobs movie. Why, heres  Omar Sys Michel, who Adam pranked most heinously in Paris back in the day. And heres  Uma Thurmans Simone, a restaurant critic Adam once dallied with against her better judgment, not just because Adams a bad egg, but because Simone herself is a lesbian thats JUST how much of a bad egg Adam really is. Adam also meets, and alienates, a few newbies:  Sam Keeleys eager young chef cadet David, upon whose couch Adam imposes, and single-mom sous-chef Helene, who is a single-mom sous-chef played by  Sienna Miller, so take a wild guess. Burnt is yet another redemption story of the Destructive Genius, whom the audience is supposed to be compelled to like in spite of himself, and who begins his journey with a list of things hes not supposed to indulge in in this case surprise its booze, drugs, and women. Then, the narrative bends circumstances to allow the Destructive Genius to get at least one of those things take a guesscould it be asingle mom sous-chef? and pull off a triumph, also in spite of himself, but with the assistance of a Crucial Teachable Moment. "Ugh," one might say, and one might have a point. One doesnt know if its better or worse that the whole scenario is polished with the sheen that I once called the Weinstein Tradition of Quality, back around the time of  The Cider House Rules, I think. Miramax Films may no longer exist, but under their Weinstein Company rubric, Harvey and  Bob Weinstein continue to make, albeit with somewhat less frequency than they used to, Miramax-y product. Miramax-y product diddoes have its virtues, however, and since  John Wells is a director of some conscience and screenwriter  Steven Knight is in fact capable of first-rate work, Burnt packs some minor surprises and attractive details along its way one sequence in which David draws an analogy between Michelin book stars and  Star Wars heroes is funny and apt and shows a certain amount of restraint when the inevitable triumphant note is struck. Theres also the cast. If youve got any use for Cooper at all youll be rather taken with him here. He gets to speak French, throw his own version of a Gordon Ramsey-style fit many times, even, and does some serious twinkling when its time to exercise the charm. The movie goes up several notches in quality every time  Emma Thompson, as a sagacious therapist, turns up. Miller is tops, Sy is terrific, Brhl does quite well, particularly after his character is given a little revelation of his own, and  Alicia Vikander makes a strong impression, as she does, in a very brief appearance. I have made a sacred vow to myself not to use the phrases hungry for more or empty calories in what they call the kicker of my review, so forgive me if I end it on the abrupt side. Like so. 