Sidney Lumet made  films in  years. That kind of prodigious output would be impressive even if he was merely turning out for-hire studio work, but any film buff worth a conversation knows thats not the case with Lumet, who not only made films for five decades but made films that mattered. Famous for a social conscience reflected in films like   Angry Men,  Dog Day Afternoon and  Running on Empty, Lumet was also a consummate actors director and an underrated craftsman. I was honored to be asked to appear on the  Directors Club podcast earlier this year in an episode devoted to the man, which allowed for a marathon of rewatches of a dozen or so of Lumets films, and the scope of his talent remains breathtaking, from his first film to his last. So how could a movie possibly capture that vast of a career in only  minutes?  Nancy Buirskis By Sidney Lumet is a gift to fans of the art of film directing. It is beautifully constructed, not as a chronological biography of a directorial legend but as a thematic exploration of his work. Comprised mostly of an interview conducted just a few years before his death, By Sidney Lumet wont just make you want to revisit his works but reappreciate the role of a great director in cinema. Given the breadth of his accomplishments, it may come as a surprise how often a very humble Lumet speaks of luck. He recognizes how much of his best work came about because of the right contributions from the right people at the right time. All art has a degree of blessed coincidence, and its surprising how much Lumet begins the film discussing this element of his career, such as when he was tapped to direct  Angry Men. He also speaks at length about his upbringing in Yiddish theater, and a strict father, who was also an actor. Buirski works thematically in the construction of her film for example, shell go from a story about Lumets father to a scene from  Daniel or Running on Empty, illustrating how Lumets life experience influenced his filmography. By avoiding the so-typical construction of chronological biography, Buirski gets at something much deeper: the chapter of Lumets life about his father didnt end when his dad passed but was reflected throughout his career, all the way to the dynamic between  Philip Seymour Hoffman and  Albert Finney in Before the Devil Knows Youre Dead.    By Sidney Lumet doesnt skimp on technical or filmmaking anecdotes as well. One of my favorite films of all time, Dog Day Afternoon, sparks a discussion of color palettes, and how he purposefully didnt use one in that movie to keep it as realistic as possible. As he says, the worst-case scenario would be for the audience to not identify with  Al Pacinos character because he was gay, so he had to ground the film as realistically as possible visually to amplify the commonality. To that end, there was no costume design. Everyone wore their own clothes. Buirski also doesnt shy away from showing extended clips, including a scene with Pacino to serve as an example of the truth of his performance, one of my favorites of all time.   Clearly, Im a Lumet fan, so heres where I have to step back and wonder if By Sidney Lumet would work for those who arent. While the thematic assembly is invigorating for those of us who know his career and biography chronologically, it may be off-putting or even frustrating for more casual fans. And sometimes it does feel like the balance can be slightly out of whack. Its well over an hour before we get to anything related to  Network,  Prince of the City or  The Verdict, and one could easily do a full documentary on those three films alone. For non-Lumet fans, it may be too much of one thing. For Lumet fans, it may be not enough of his best work.   Its impossible to capture every facet of a career as vast and influential as Lumets in one interview documentary, and I would argue that Buirski isnt really trying to do that. She doesnt speak to collaborators of Lumets or those influenced by him. This is not that film. It is a conversation, one of the last of its type, with a master filmmaker. Personally, I wish we had more of them. 