Camp X-Ray has cinematic and moral intelligence. This debut feature by writer-director  Peter Sattler about a female soldier stationed at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is a quiet, patient drama that focuses on a handful of characters and plays out in a few key locations: a cell, a hallway, a prison yard, some offices. It articulates its observations and emotions through shots and cuts, and actors reactions. Its also about culture clashes, patriotism, idealism, duty, and what it means to be a woman in a job defined by primordial ideas of manhood. It is not a perfect movie a couple of developments feel shoehorned in, and the final leg squanders the goodwill built up in the preceding  minutes but its ambitious, and it has soul. Its one of the better mainstream American film portraits of what happened to America's psyche after : the moral numbness that set in right away, and never entirely lifted. Twilight star  Kristen Stewart carries the film on her slender shoulders. She plays the heroine, PFC Amy Cole, a young woman from a Florida town who enlisted in the Army to learn and grow, but now finds herself at Guantanamo also as Gitmo, or Camp X-Ray watching over prisoners. Sorry: detainees. Its important to use that word instead of prisoners because, as Amy explains to a fellow soldier, Prisoners are subject to the Geneva Conventions. Detainees are not.  Amys trainer, CPL Randy Randsell  Lane Garrison, tells her right off the bat that its not a good idea to see the detainees as autonomous human beings, because that will get in the way of the job. He discourages her partly by playing on her insecurity as one of a handful of women at Camp X-Ray, a camp staffed mostly by burly male soldiers guarding cell blocks full of fundamentalist Muslims who dont like being overseen by Americans generally, American women in particular.  Amy disregards Randys instructions and lets a stridently eloquent, English-speaking inmate named Amir Ali  Peyman Moaadi of A Separation engage her in conversation as she rolls a book cart up and down the cell block hallway. The relationship between Amy, a strong-silent type, and Ali, a chatterbox provocateur, has a s-movie feel. The filmmaker lets Stewart act Steve McQueen-style, mostly with her eyes, body and hands. Moaadi jabbers and squirms and wheedles like a Middle Eastern cousin of Dustin Hoffman. Their first talk is faintly Kafka-esque: hes read the first six Harry Potter books and has been begging for the seventh volume for two years. Amy cant and wont help him, offering him a two-week-old newspaper plus whatever else is on the cart. Their conversations about reading material do such a subtle job of exploring the films themes they talk about Willa Cathers My Antonia, a book built around a female pioneer, as well as Harry Potter that its a huge letdown when the films pays these conversations off in a boringly conventional way. Far better are the journalistic details: the magazines and newspapers on Amys book cart, with womens faces blacked out' the way inmates wrap their Korans in small white blankets, and pass the time by drawing, doing puzzles, yelling at the guards and each other, and occasionally hurling feces in protest' the way that procedure, protocol and tradition rule everything, on both sides of the cell doors.  The first half of Camp X-Ray concentrates on showing us what its like to be Amy and do Amys job. Sattler often photographs her in ways that either disguise her femininity or complicate our reactions to it. The first time we see her, shes silhouetted against the sun, backlit like a  Clint Eastwood gunfighter. As the story unfolds, there are many close-ups taken from behind Stewarts shoulders as Amy walks through the camp or down a cell block corridor, or sits in a chair in the mess hall or in her apartment, thinking. Our eye naturally gravitates toward her hair, which is pulled into a tight bun. The bun is at the center of the frame during so many important scenes that it eventually seems to stand for both Amys tightly wound personality and her workplace predicament. She gets flack for being sexually unavailable to men, but at the same time, shes under pressure to man up and not show her feelings, because thats what girls do. Amy only lets her hair down once in the film, before Skyping with her mom. Are you a soldier, or are you a female soldier? Randy asks Amy, when she recoils from an inmates humiliation-as-punishment. Cuz I dont have these kind of problems with soldiers.    Stewart is great in Camp X-Ray. Freed of her Twilight obligation to enact a horror movie version of fairytale-femme situations, she seems at ease so to speak as a tomboy. She mines a narrow emotional range with precision. Her performance is fat-free. There are silent film-quality close-ups where you can read every fluctuation in her mood even though shes barely moving a muscle. This is a true movie star performance. When it fails to convince, its only because Stewarts acting makes the heroine seem like such a distinct, real person that when Amy talks or acts like a standard conscience-stricken movie character, we cant accept it. Camp X-Ray spirals into conventional dramatics near the end, rushing through Amys epiphany and Alis despair, and turning into the hard-edged yet sentimental buddy film you hoped it was too proud to let itself be. But its still worth seeing for the caliber of its acting and filmmaking. Sattler and his cinematographer,  James Laxton, compose striking shots that advance the story and comment on the scripts themes without becoming ostentatiously pretty. The movie makes great use of the camps coldly anonymous architecture, framing guards and prisoners within rectangles and squares and converging diagonal lines, and sometimes dwarfing them in long shots that have the geometric solidity of a Piet Mondrian painting. The editing, by  Geraud Brisson, juxtaposes shots in cheeky ways, as when the movie crosscuts between a Muslim call to prayer and soldiers lining up for morning inspection: the sequence is capped by a shot of the the US flag flapping in the breeze, as if to suggest that blind faith in a nation's goodness is its own kind of state religion. 