The first fifteen minutes or so of this documentary were not entirely fruitful ones for this reviewer. Theres a darkened, artfully photographed room, with a now-old fashioned reel-to-reel tape recorder sitting on a table, and an interview subject, the Israeli writer  Amos Oz, listening to words he recorded almost a half-century ago. The premise is not, to say the least, unpromising. Oz is a veteran of the  Arab-Israeli War, which, as a text at the films very beginning asserts, represented the birth of modern Israel. Shortly after his service in that war, Oz and a few other colleagues conducted kibbutz interviews with themselves and other veterans, interviews that, a related text informs, have never been made entirely public until now hence the movies title. Avraham Shapiras book The Seventh Day, published in Israel in , was based on the material, and is credited as a primary source here' Shapira is also among the films interviewees. Director  Mor Loushys strategy of interposing shots of the spinning reels of the tape recorder, the darkened faces of the interviewees as they listen to their younger selves, and archival footage which, the movie carefully points out, is not of the interviewees at first made me think the material might have been better off in book form' the approach felt simultaneously rote and a little arty. But Loushy is resourceful, particularly as an editor, and the talking heads, even those not as internationally famous as the compassionate, articulate, and still-distressed Oz, are spectacularly compelling. A few popular victory songs from the era play over triumphant-looking footage of Israeli soldiers interacting with citizens, and one former serviceman remarks We see ourselves as Macabees. But theres hollowness and a bitterness here, not just with almost fifty years hindsight, but in the immediate reflections of the soldiers interviewed just weeks after the victories. Its no accident that the best-friend character in  Ari Folmans Waltz With Bashir was the filmmakers therapist, or that the therapy-themed TV series In Treatment was based on an Israeli show. The Israelis are in the main an implacably self-examining people, and the army men interviewed here are for the most part secular Jews. One interviewee recalls the mother of a dead friend saying Jerusalems Western Wall isnt worth my sons fingernail. Provisionally Zionists, they are tortured by the fact that their national self-determination their right to a homeland, such as it is is tied into religious conflicts, beliefs they themselves do not even hold. What, they wonder almost as soon at theyre demobilized, arewere they fighting for? Were not murderers, but in the war, we all became murderers, says one man, ruefully. Loushys choice of archival footage reflects a Western media that chose to function as a pep squad for the Israeli project. Clipped British voices declaim that one can only admire the efficiency of the Israeli army led by charismatic, eyepatch-sporting Moshe Dayan, and quip, over a shot of an abandoned pair of loafers on a street, that an Israeli squadron leaves the Egyptians shoeless in Gaza. But late in the film, Loushy shows ABC News Bob Young reporting from an Arab refugee camp in Amman, saying that theres nothing growing there except seeds of revenge, and its chilling. If Israel is a country at all and in my view, for what its worth, it absolutely is it is one that consistently has to come to terms with the paradoxes and contradictions that it's practically made of, something this trim and disquieting film brings home with what turns out to be great economy and force. A society that wont tell itself the truth  is in big trouble, says one of the interviewees. The words have perhaps never been more true. And not just for Israel, as the movie implies. 