"Czanneet Moi" is at its most intoxicating whenever it looks and acts like a landscape painted by its title  th -century French artist, whose evolving post-Impressionist style that was mostly dismissed during his lifetime would forever transform the way such  th -century masters as Picasso and Matisse would see the world. Cinematographer  Jean-Marie Dreujou magnificently manages to engage every sense not just sight but also sound, touch, scent and taste as his camera absorbs the familiar Aix-en-Provence subjects of Czannes canvases. There are the turquoise skies, chalky red-brown earth, delicately verdant leaves swaying on branches and, his favorite centerpiece, the muscular and majestic Montagne Sainte-Victoire. Somehow, you can smell the bright pools of paint onCzannes palette' savor the fresh ripe tomatoes, slices of sausage and just-peeled garlic that sit nearby' feel the warmth of the sun' and sniff the freshness of the air. But writerdirector  Danile Thompsons primary objective is not so much to imitate art but present a portrait of the extremely close yet often contentious relationship between Paul Czanneand Nobel Prize-winning author  Emile Zola. They first met as schoolboys and stayed in touch off and on until , when Czannes objection to being the inspiration for a tragic character in Zolas The Masterpiece irreparably tore them apart. As Thompsons script jumps between time periods, with cameo appearances by such renowned associates as Manet, Pissarro and Renoir, this historical drama primarily becomes a bushy-bearded bromance between two hugely gifted and ambitious men whose personalities were as polarized as those of Oscar and Felix in  The Odd Couple. Despite being a son of a well-off banker who disapproved of his vocational pursuits, the rough-hewn Czanne Guillaume Gallienne, fully capturing the wounded pride of a hard-working artist starved for the recognition that is enjoyed by his peers is shown as a vulgar, opinionated and hot-headed bohemian with a substantial appetite for wine, women, food and the great outdoors while disdaining middle-class values and pretense. Meanwhile, fatherless Zola  Guillaume Canet, doing a fine job of conveying his writers inhibitions and doubts, who was raised under reduced circumstances by his widowed mother, embraces a more comfy bourgeois lifestyle thanks to his fame and fortune as a storyteller as exhibited by his fashionable pince-nez eyewear, fancy pipe and natty suits despite displaying a naturalist style of writing that exhibits empathy for societys struggling underdogs. Both male stars are fully believable in their roles, with Gallienne investing his less-refined recluse with outward bluster and inward discontent while Canet shades his introverted intellectual with quieter emotional hues. But  Czanneet Moi too often neglects to allow us to witness and understand the budding genius of these two towering figures we only hear a few of Zolas poetic passages being spoken aloud and see only a handful ofCzannes completed works for what turns out to ultimately be a high-class soap opera. Obviously, Zolas intellect and concern for the fate of mankind drove him to create his tales and the overwhelming beauty of his surroundings fedCzannes need to develop a new way to envision nature. But we dont really get to chart the development of their skills. The mistresses, wives and maids are there to indulge the desires of these needy men, whether it is serving food, providing sex, acting as models, raising children or comforting their bruised egos. Only their own supportive mothers are pedestal-worthy. To increase the already palpable tension between the two rivals, much is made of how Zolas controlling wife, Alexandrine  Alice Pol, was originally Czannes lover. Still, Thompson cant resist asserting her female perspective on occasion to allow the women to loudly express their displeasure at being taken for granted and rebuke the males for their behavior now and then. In truth, it seems that Czanneand Zola were each other's muses, forever wedded to one another, at least as they exist in Thompsons ripe imagination. In good times and in bad, in sickness and in health, in anger and in affection, in failure and in selling out, theirs was a marriage born of inspiration and admiration. Its not exactly  Kirk Douglas as Van Gogh and  Anthony Quinn in Gauguin in Lust for Life, but itll do.   