In , filmmaker  Catherine Gund sat down with Mexican music icon  Chavela Vargas, leading to a candid interviewabout many parts of her inspirational life. Decades later, Gund along with co-director  Daresha Kyi has unearthed the footage and tried to create a full, albeit inconsistent documentary starting with the material, as a type of educational tribute to the rebellious lesbian and famous ranchera singer.  As it tells Chavelas story mostly chronologically aside from that  interview up until her death in , the fascinating details of her life are touched upon, presenting a legacy that captivated her fansin more ways than one. Gund and Kyi paint a curiousimage of Chavelas queer sexuality within a homophobic Mexican artscene, openlyresisting the feminine images of a ranchero singer, but forced to be themost macho of anyone in orderto be viewed as powerful. In movies, she was portrayed as the ultimate ladykiller, and took on that presence in real life, boasting an androgynous but irresistible presence,while fraternizing with the heaviest of male boozehounds. All of this was before she publicly announced that she was a lesbian, at the age of . With a presence that some described as masculine, Chavelas was a life that vividly proved gender to be a mere social construct, decades before that concept would even be recognized in public discourse. When director  Pedro Almodovar is shown in the third act gushing about her work, which he has featured in his films, in addition to his close friendship with Chavela it's but one of example of her trailblazing influence.   Her private life is given a curious examination, and not just in the passage where she talks about her relationship with Frida Kahlo, or people talk about her reputation that Chavela slept with all of Mexico. In one striking passage, a lover claims to have been the one who helped her stop drinking, as opposed to Chavelas initial public claims that it had to do withmysticism. We get a vibrant idea of this intoxicating effect she had on people, but also that of her fascinating desire to be alone. The concept of solitude is a reoccurring lover that people mention, and it completes the poetry about an artist who loved so intensely that she became permanently restless, an island unto herself.Its the talking head access that seems like the documentarys biggest addition to her legacy, with peoples accounts continuing her own prowess as being unpredictable. As we get to know her from this movie, she can feel more like thedreams or reflections of the film's interview subjectsthan just an ordinary human being.  Theres a strong, necessary focus that the movie has with the somber, delicate sounds of ranchero music, contextualizing Chavelas placement as someone who changed the game by bringing another level of emotion to it in her performances. A few minutes spent on the songwriter Jose AlfredoJimenez creates a history of the art form, and also a contrast to what Chavela did when she took Jimenezs music and turned the ballads of loneliness and longingto mountainous declarations. Footage of Chavela's full voicecrooning her songs, as if she were going to die, someone aptly notes makes up for roughly a quarter of the documentarys running time, but you understand how her emotive intensity made these songs linger, and spoke to people beyond words. Lyric text accompanies these videos in the same way  Amy did with  Amy Winehouses lyrics, but it has a flat type of effect here. Watching her trembling face and her grasping hands as she sings does not give enough to the story, as much of a powerhouse it represented.  Despite focusing on adefinitively interesting artist, "Chavela"nonetheless shares its passion at a languid pace and without her bold artistic values. Eventually the slow zooms into black and white pictures a common documentary aesthetic, of course start to take away the filmic rhythm, and the overall impact is lessened. A documentary that starts with a gold mine of personal footage then shows its understandably limited historical resources, but that doesnt excuse the choice ofugly visual transitions one fuzzy, non-rendered image slowly fading into another or the way in which stock footage is used as elementary connective tissue.  Gund and Kyi's filmsucceeds as a belated obituary, if to get newcomers to understand her importance, or to provide those familiar with her work a type of celebration across decades. Chavela is presented as a grandioseenigma, the kind that inspires moreresearch afterward and seeking out her music, but the film is too ordinary to feel like it does her legacy complete artistic justice.   