This weekends Communist period piece Child  has suffered an incriminating fate that even Paul Blart: Mall Cop  avoided: Russia banned it right before its release, stating that the film reflected upon the nation with evocations of Mordor the evil land from J.R.R. Tolkiens Lord of the Rings, and in an equally damning move, the film was not screened for critics in many major cities. But unlike some of Hollywoods stranger tales about film releases, Child  doesnt need Hobbit-loving Russian government officials to equate it the land of Orcs, or for no one in other countries to know this movie exists, to earn its legacy as a blotch on the resumes of many talented people. Child  is a fiasco by its own free will.  Director  Daniel Espinosas Easy Money, Safe House bungled epic, based on the novel from  Tom Rob Smith, tells of sons and daughters of Mother Russia who are lost within Communisms inhumanity. They live in a society that claims to be Eden, but a brutal history of orphan-making famine, along with day-to-day dictatorial lunacy, suggests otherwise. Though the quote is never sourced, many of the characters in this world have been programmed to believe in the same motto: There is no murder in paradise. The USSRs main orphan in Child  is Leo Demidov Tom Hardy. His parents died in the Holodomor famine in the Ukraine in the s, but he found a new family within Russian military, and was deemed a war hero when seen on newspapers brandishing a Soviet flag after the Reichstag in . A few years later, in Moscow, he makes his living hunting traitors such as Jason Clarkes Anatoly with comrades Vasili  Joel Kinnaman and Alexei  Fares Fares, while married to a schoolteacher,  Noomi Rapaces Raisa, who could not harbor any less adoration for her husband. Child  spends its time following Leo as he leads the way for a society that creates paranoia, in which, as Anatoly declares, When you are arrested, you are already guilty. The film eventually lumbers to its actual narrative center, when Alexeis young son is found dead. Because murder does not exist in Russia, the government rules that the boy was hit by a train, but Alexei, his family, and even the coroner know that a fellow Russian is to blame. Though a rational man, Leo stands behind the ruling, fearing to be listed as a traitor by his superior Major Kuzmin Vincent Cassel if he challenges the government, and he suggests Alexei do the same.  Such efforts prove pointless when Raisa is revealed to be an informant during interrogations on Anatoly. Because Leo did not turn her in himself, the couple are exiled to the industrial town of Volsk, where another boy is found dead, in a similarly gruesome display. Working under his new superior General Mikhail Nesterov Gary Oldman, Leo begins to accept that this aint no coincidence, and starts a controversial hunt to find the murderer, in order to prove against his governments delusion about excusing itself from classifications of homicide.    The film is loaded with actors who continue to be reliable. Hardys charisma is a steal for any production that can get him, and the added support of Rapace, Oldman, and Kinnaman provides particular dramatic security. The story may feel endless, but they do not forfeit. As the cast collectively saturates fictional beings who deserve to be in a better-realized film, they prove to not be the problem of Child . With these performances, its those pesky Russian accents that many of its Hollywood actors speak. They arent ruinous due to questions of authenticity, but in how some garble their words. Lost key words spoken by characters pile on the avoidable bugaboos. The most nagging one involves  Vincent Cassel describing what murder is considered to be in the Soviet Union. Its such a climactic declaration that the films trailer treats it prominently. Even there, as I listen over and over, it makes no sense. The line: Murder is strictly a Capillarys disease? Captaineers disease? Captainese disease? Water on the knee?" An ancient saying states that a film is written three times - in the screenplay, on set, and in the editing room. The many narrative strands of Child could have been tangled in any one of these stages, but it feels most of all to be the result of various editing errors, creating a final product that is equally bloated and scatterbrained. Instead of narrowing in on Hardys go-getter questioning his blind obedience during this murder investigation, Child wants an ensemble character scope that it cant handle. In smaller doses, some scenes are far too choppy, information and cohesion be damned, whether its vicious hand-to-hand scuffles or facile exchanges of dialogue. On the other hand, the film doesnt hesitate to treat other scenes as opportunities for rants about the terrors of Communism, as with a barbaric, homophobic witch-hunt that garners a five-minute narrative diversion a scene that suggests provoking some Russian moviegoers, indeed. Or, when famished story-lines need to be kicked back into action, the editing never resists helping characters find each other with impeccable timing, or eventually giving in and just showing us the murderer, because everyone else is too slow.  In the end, the strangest mystery of Child  involves Espinosa: Where did he lose focus? His previous two films, Easy Money which was presented by  Martin Scorsese and Safe House affirm that the central narrative of Child  is right in his crosshairs. Id more readily trust him with a Jason Bourne movie than I would a sweeping Russian epic, but I digress. Instead, hes only able to continue crafting sturdy performances that present a few bursts of curious moral quandaries. The overall tightness that elevated him from Easy Moneyto Safe House, however, is lost.  While Child  now has some strange release date tales, there are none to be heard yet about any vigorous re-writes, re-shoots, or re-edits that would suggest the film was headed down an alternate narrative course. Well, no such mentions that have been admitted to the public, at least. 