You've got to admire  James Franco's chutzpah. After directing a few vacant things that barely count as movies, he just started going around buying the rights to classics like he was  William Wyler or  John Huston. After "As I Lay Dying," last years fascinating, if perhaps undercooked Faulkner adaptation, Franco has returned with a stab at  Cormac McCarthys early novel "Child of God."  People who were worried when Franco snapped up the option to "Blood Meridian," McCarthys unfilmable masterpiece, wont have their fears allayed any by a good faith but blank retelling of McCarthys first major statement. Franco clearly wants to be a provocative artist with the chops to bring major literature to life, but he has no relationship with the camera. Every cut has the same effect as the curtain raising on the next act of a play: heres some more action, for better or worse. Its like " Dogville" with the sets filled in' watchably eccentric but rudderless. Scott Haze makes a hell of a showing for himself as Lester Ballard, a half-mad, backwoods degenerate with no place in polite society. "Child of God" starts with Ballard losing every piece of property he owns except his rifle and retreating into the woods. He squats in a vacant shack, finds the body of a dead girl, brings her back to the shed and then starts courting her. Things somehow get worse from there. Before long a posse led by Franco, in a small, unmemorable role are chasing him into the hills looking for some form of closure after his twisted reign of terror. Oh, theres also a mostly useless, though incredibly entertaining sidebar featuring the always-welcome Tim  Blake Nelson as the sheriff and  Jim Parrack as his deputy. They dont do much of anything but their no-bullshit chemistry works like gangbusters and Franco was smart to focus as much time on them as he does, even if it meant losing some of the books better passages. Theyre like a Kentucky Fried Statler and Waldorf, and theyre a welcome respite from Hazes literal go-for-broke turn, even if they dont do much more than arrest him a few times. Its a curious thing. What impulse leads most directors to seek out great books and turn them into films? Presumably the writer has conjured up a set of events so compelling in a totally unique milieu and he or she wants to see it brought to life. James Franco isnt like most directors. After publishing a few books, going to a couple of expensive grad schools and turning up in an adaptation of a few of his short stories, its clear that Francos approach to movies is about respect for the word above all else. "As I Lay Dying" frequently stopped its not-terribly urgent narrative so that characters could stare into the camera and read passages of the book aloud. Its one cinematic device, frequent split-screen, was apparently chosen to fit more of Faulkners prose into its nearly two hour runtime. "Child of God" has no interest in breaking the fourth wall but sure does plenty of staring. Cinematographer  Christina Voros handheld camera tries to keep up with our hero as he defiles a body, foams at the mouth, cries like an infant over his losses, defecates in the woods, and does himself and others repeated harm. Franco gracelessly follows Haze from one sordid misadventure to the next with no feeling for why McCarthy made all these decisions the first time around. Its a great ad for the book because whats missing from the films conception of the characters is all on the page. And despite awell, one hesitates to use the term star-making about a performance so deliberately hideous and grotesque, but a grippingly insane performance from the badger-like Haze, theres just too much silence where their ought to be prose. Which isnt to say the film is without merit. It is utterly fascinating to see classic literature re-enacted as if it were theatre, and it takes courage to grab up something as iconic in its darkness as "Child of God" and just play it straight. Its as if Haze decided to put on the most perverse one-man show imaginable and Franco was there to catch it all. This isnt the best way to get at the beauty of an authors worldview even one as flamboyantly scabrous as McCarthys as its got no poetry of its own but its evidence of respect. Franco has been doing whatever the hell hes felt like for the last few years and itd be easy to coast on meatless supporting roles in the indies that come his way, but when you consider that he could be  Zach Braff and do exactly what people expect him to, Franco starts to look a lot more fearless. He may just be the coolest kid in class trying to encourage everyone to pay attention to the English teacher, but theres something noble in that. The day he figures out what to do with his camera, hes going to graduate to artist and we may have a properly excellent director on our hands.  