An early scene in Closet Monster reveals that the film will not remain completely tethered to reality. After hearing of his parents impending divorce, eight-year-old Oscar  Jack Fulton retreats to his room to find his hamster, Buffy, looking distressed. Whats wrong? he asks. Im scared, replies Buffy. Its a jarring moment, to be sure, but an easily accepted one' who wouldnt want their pets to respond in the voice of  Isabella Rossellini? Buffy becomes Oscars constant companion on his journey to adulthood and self-discovery, though her magic doesnt extend to altering her age expectancy. You do realize Im not the same hamster you had when you were a kid, she tells -year old Oscar  Connor Jessup at the films end. Ive been replaced four times. Its a sly dig at both Oscar and his inattentive parents that no one noticed that the current replacement is a male hamster. Like the superior  Moonlight, Closet Monster tells the story of queer youth navigating the rocky waters of self-acceptance. Both films use imagery and camerawork as a means of evoking the protagonists feelings of uncertainty, but Closet Monster resides in a more surrealistic universe. In addition to chatting with Buffy, Oscar has constant visions of being impaled on a large iron pole, which juts from his stomach like a bloody, phallic object. This image is rooted in Oscars traumatic childhood discovery of the victim of a heinous, homophobic hate crime. Oscars psyche adopts the weapon used in the attack as a symbol for his own concerns about his burgeoning sexuality. It might be above my pay grade to say that pole is a coming out metaphor, but based on the films gory climax, thats the way I interpreted it. Theres no doubt in Oscars mind that hes gay, and writerdirector  Stephen Dunn never makes this ambiguous. What he does subtly shade is the friendship that develops between Oscar and Wilder  Aliocha Schneider, a handsome co-worker at a Home Depot-ish hardware store. Wilders sexuality is left undefined, and Oscar is content not to inquire, as either option might lead to a rejection. Wilders feelings about Oscar are played far closer to the chest than Oscars feelings about him: When Wilder asks to borrow Oscars uniform shirt for his shift, Oscar lustfully responds to Wilders scent upon its return. Unfortunately, his onanistic glee is interrupted by a familiar, sharp pain in his stomach. You look different, says Buffy to Oscar when he returns home after swooning over Wilder. Youre in LOVE! Rossellinis delivery of the line is just great, a fearless response that serves as a mini-oasis of positivity. Oscar denies all, but his spirit animal knows better. His BFF Gemma Sophia Banzhaf also picks up on this change, playfully poking at Oscar for more details. In addition to being his companion, Gemma is also the model for Oscars FX makeup. Oscar uses the resulting pictures as his portfolio when he applies at a college specializing in special effects. Since Gemma plans on pursuing a modeling career in Brooklyn after graduation, Oscar also photographs the headshots shell need for her own pursuits.   Oscars dad Peter  Aaron Abrams, with whom he has been living since the divorce, thinks Gemma is Oscars girlfriend. But he freaks out when he sees an innocent interaction between Oscar and Wilder. Peter is a douche-bro who clearly is a stand-in for societys idea of what constitutes masculinity. He flaunts the women hes sleeping with in front of his son, plays childish pranks on people, and is vindictive, homophobic and obnoxious. Though Oscars mother Brin  Joanne Kelly never explicitly states why she left Peter, no explanation is required after seeing him in action. Oscar is just as bitter at Brin for the divorce as Peter is, yet his anger is fueled by different reasons. Brin, like all the female characters in Closet Monster represents an escape from the often absurd societal notions of manliness, the same ideas that caused the hate crime depicted at the films beginning. Theyre the same concepts Peter poisons Oscar with, and Oscar needs to shake from his psyche in order to be liberated. Yet the film is not always hard on Peter' theres a lovely scene with him at the beginning where he uses a balloon to fill Oscars head with dreams before bedtime, which Dunn returns to later in a scene that may or may not be real. You can mine several big diamonds of symbolism from this film, especially in scenes that blur the lines between reality and fantasy so much we cant trust what were seeing. But, and this will surprise the hell out of my high school English teacher, I really didnt mind being bombarded with symbols. Closet Monster is most successful when it uses fable-like qualities to allow us to feel Oscars emotions viscerally rather than narratively. With this in mind, its only fitting that Buffy the spirit animal ends the film by revealing her truth at the same time Oscar has become comfortable with his. 