Jon Watts made waves at the  Sundance Film Festival with his throwback thriller  Cop Car getting enough attention that he was given a Golden Ticket to join Club MCU by directing s Spider-Man: Homecoming. Interestingly, Watts had another film in the can that had never been released, s Clown, produced by  Eli Roth, and just this week is getting a small theatrical and VOD release. Why was Clown buried? Is it an example of a film that is only being seen because of its creators subsequent fame and should have been left in a shallow cinema grave? Or is it evidence of the talent that Watts would later show on a larger stage? The answer is somewhere in between. While Clown is far from the disastrous misfire that typically stains VOD horror movies most range from awful to I never want to see a movie again, it comes apart about halfway through, losing a very difficult tonal balance. Having said that, theres more to like here than the studio burial would have you believe.  Its actually most likely that the studio is semi-burying Clown and didn't screen it for critics because theyre a little scared of it. While its not as all-out gory as some of the films also produced by Eli Roth, it hinges on a no-no even in horror cinema the violent, bloody, sometimes cannibalistic death of children. Horror fans will watch adults, especially morally corrupt ones, get drawn and quartered, but putting kids in jeopardy is generally considered a bridge too far. Seeing kids eaten by a killer clown? Kind of hard to put into a trailer. Long before hes devouring rugrats, Kent  Andy Powers is an average family man. When a clown doesnt show up for his sons birthday party, he finds an old suit in a house hes trying to sell in his role as a realtor. The party goes off without a hitch but he falls asleep on the couch in his full clown gear. The next day, he notices that the red rubber nose wont come off and the wig seems to have fused with his real hair. When he tries to get the suit off, even with a handsaw, he fails. As if spending the rest of your life looking like a vagabond Ronald McDonald isnt bad enough, Kent notices that he has an new taste for the blood of children. A man  Peter Stormare, in full Stormare Mode with a history with the clown suit tells Kent and his wife an ineffective  Laura Allen that decapitation is the only answer before the demon in the suit takes over Kent completely. The first act of Clown works because it lays a lot of its arc at the feet of a totally-committed performance by Powers. To pull off the story of a man who cant get out of a clown suit requires  Nicolas Cage in Vampires Kiss levels of commitment and Powers is completely in for the ride. Watts tone is also playful in this first act, such as when Kent tries to blow his brains out and ends up with a rainbow spray on the wall. Spoiler: It doesnt work.  The problem with Clown is that it eventually tries to get serious and loses its way in two key places. First, theres kind of a gross scene in which a bully gets his comeuppance in a most grotesque way that doesnt work tonally and when kid death doesnt work tonally, it really doesnt work. More long-term, the final act basically turns Kent into a child-eating demon, taking Powers out of the film as an actor and forcing Allen to do a lot of heavy emoting to try and save her husband. Its around here that one starts adding up the films missed opportunities as well. It doesnt really provide any truly frightening scary clown imagery to add to that crowded subgenre and it takes no opportunities to become something deeper in terms of commentary on fatherhood, masculinity, even childhood icons, etc. Its really just a killer clown movie. One has to give Watts and Powers credit for really going for it and not pulling back from their disturbing concept, but that credit runs out before the movie is over.   