The overthrow of a democratically elected leader, the imposition of a fascistic military strongman on a population, the years of human rights abuses and crony capitalism that followed' the history of Chile from the early s right into the early  th  century provides any good liberal-minded thinking person plenty to get steamed about, and there have been plenty of fiction and non-fiction stories told about it during and after that time including the much-bruited   Costa-Gavras picture  Missing, starring  Jack Lemmon and  Sissy Spacek. Colonia, directed by Floran Gallenberger from a script by  Torsten Wenzel and the director, uses a little-known wrinkle in Chiles horrific narrative as its springboard.  The movie begins as a pretty conventional period romantic drama.  Emma Watsons Lena is a stewardess its , female flight attendants are still called that for Lufthansa, and unlike her colleagues, shes a little adventurous in her love life: shes involved with German-born activist Daniel  Daniel Bruhl, whos rousing The People at a street rally as shes on the shuttle from Santiagos airport to her hotel. Lena hops off the bus and into Daniels arms for a few blissful days of love and activism, and then, boom, the coup hits, and theyre out on the streets. Daniel, so ardent he cant help himself, gets himself in big trouble with the militia after hes spotted trying to document their repressive activities with his camera. Lena and Daniel are shipped to a soccer stadium for processing and Daniel gets ratted out. Lenas let go, and heartbroken.  She soon finds out that Daniels likely been taken to the south, to the headquarters of a religious sect actually, cult run by another German, named Paul Schfer. No, Im not making this up. The moviemakers arent either. Paul Schfer founded the real-life Colonia Dignidad German religious diaspora to Latin America go back to the early  th  Century, incidentally in , combining Baptist-style tenets, punitive agrarian lifestyles, and aggressive anti-Communism. The latter, especially, made him a useful tool for Pinochet, and the colony functioned, after the coup, as a repository for dissidents, who were tortured and imprisoned there. A fascinating, terrible place. One that might have more effectively conveyed to film viewers outside the strictures of a romance-based suspense picture. But, alas, this is the story of Colonia that we have been given.  Lena, on learning of this place, dresses way down and hides there, trying to go undercover as a God-seeker. Schfer himself, played with effective imperious chilliness by  Michael Nyqvist who also manages an unnerving resemblance to the real-life figure sees through Lena immediately, and has her unbutton her drab blouse to reveal a lacy bra underneath. He accepts her into his flock anyway, and soon shes farming the land in sexually segregated non-splendor, keeping her eyes peeled for Daniel.    Daniel in the meantime has been beaten and tortured so thoroughly hes believed to be brain-damaged. But hes not, and hes crafty enough to know not to let on. How they will find each other and what theyll do once that happens takes up some time, and the contrivances that follow are a little over-determined. Its very convenient that Lena is saved from a gang beating by an alarm being tripped by Daniel, completely by coincidence. Once the couple is reunited, director Gallenberger does manage to ramp up some effective suspense depicting their efforts to escape. But these mechanics, in turn, diffuse what also wants to be a powerful story of human rights abuse. Watson and Bruhl give it their best, and Nyqvist makes a powerful villain, but Colonia winds up being a movie that wants to get its way on too many levels, and winds up not satisfying on most of them.  