Complete Unknown has a killer opening sequence. Two young women, their faces tantalizingly kept out of frame much of the time, discuss a new living arrangement for one of the women, whos back from a long time away, in an exotic location, where, she says, she worked with some amazing botanists. That woman, glimpsed in profile, is recognizable as  Rachel Weisz. So, too, is the compassionate and competent hospital nurse seen in a couple of following shots. So, too, is the magicians assistant working in a Chinese nightclub in the next few shots. So, too, is the somberly dressed woman sitting in a car parked outside of a suburban house, watching as an older woman drives her car out of the driveway and away from that house. Is this a woman with a lot of careers? Is this a clone? Next were in a New York office and characters Tom Michael Shannon and Clyde  Michael Chernus are discussing a matter of some import' Tom is drafting a sort of codicil to a piece of proposed legislation, and is concerned about fall grazing trends, and because hes  Michael Shannon, his concern is pretty intense. In short order, Weiszs character is seen doing online research about the sandy-haired, goateed, slightly pudgy Clyde, and insinuating herself into his attentions by way of an obviously engineered meet-cute in Clydes office cafeteria. The viewer will have more questions now: is Weisz someone who engages in some sort of corporate espionage, hence all of her personae? The answers are not too long in coming, and without giving too much away, Complete Unknown unspools as more of a chamber drama than a thriller. The picture is co-written and directed by  Joshua Marston, whos worked a lot in television in recent years but whose feature film career has a distinguishing characteristic which is defined by the fact that this picture is the California-born filmmakers first full-length movie in English. His  feature debut  Maria Full of Grace was mostly in Spanish, and s striking, underseen  The Forgiveness of Blood was set and shot in Albania. The milieu of Complete Unknown has an internationalist bent' Toms wife, Ramina  Azita Ghanizada, is Persian, and is informally tutoring Tom in Farsi' everyone in Toms circle is well-traveled, as is  Alice, who comes to Toms birthday party as Clydes platonic date. This new persona of Weiszs claims to have just come in from Tasmania, where shes been working with a newly discovered species of toad. Tom, however, recognizes someone wholly other in Alice.  At a certain point, the character Weisz plays reminded me of a less score-settling version of, well, Alice, the persona-shifting sometime stripper from  Mike Nichols   Closer, adapted by  Patrick Marber from his play. As Tom and Alice separate themselves from Toms social circle to sort things out, Weiszs character explains to Tom that the way she morphs from person to person has been a liberation for her: I could be anyone I wanted. A chance encounter on the street with an older woman walking her dog Kathy Bates ends in a mishap that compels Tom and Alice to escort the woman back to her home, where they meet her husband  Danny Glover. There, Alice gives Tom an object lesson in impersonation by passing him off to the couple as an osteopath, and he performs a credible diagnosis on Bates character in a sequence thats both suspenseful and mordantly funny, one that is brought off beautifully by the four expert actors.   Marstons screenplay, co-written with  Julian Sheppard, is sharp and has a nice number of twists. His directing style here is intriguing. Shooting in widescreen, he often maintains an almost claustrophobically shallow focus, and places what would customarily be crucial points of interest near the edge of the frame. Its a good strategy for keeping the viewer a little off balance. And a tight frame also has the added benefit of masking a tight budget, although to tell the truth I did notice when the golden retriever that Bates character was walking completely vanished as soon as Bates, Weisz and Shannon entered the Bates characters apartment building. The movie does pretty well as a treatment of identity and selfhood in a social landscape that grows increasingly alienating as it becomes more transparent. But it somehow fails to wholly satisfy. And as killer as the opening sequence is, the movie final shot is a disquieting dud: it is practically color values aside a replica of the final shot of the aforementioned Closer. Which is not to say that Marston lifted it' for all I know hes never even seen the movie. Its more likely that the observation that motivated the shot was exactly the same, which leads me to question the ultimate value of the sentiment. 