If youre a fan of Mexican film and television star Omar Chaparro, Ive got some good news and some bad news. The good is that Chaparro is starring in his first crossover-to-Hollywood picture. The bad is that I bet it isnt the crossover-to-Hollywood picture he was hoping for. The compact Chaparro he could be a blockier cousin to Antonio Banderas by way of  George Clooney is here saddled to an unlikely-buddy-cop movie. Maybe youve heard of those. His foil is a fat teenage computer hacker in L.A. whos gotten himself in inadvertent trouble with some very nasty drug traffickers. He's played by  Joey Morgan, which is maybe good news for fans of  Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse, in which Morgan played  yes, the fat one.  This movie, which is what youd call a god-awful mess, doesnt even introduce Morgans character until about a half an hour in. Thats how conscientiously structured it is. Instead, it begins with Chaparros character, Garza, in a kitchen playing with an adorable toddler and making small talk with the toddlers mother, his partners wife. She tells him he really ought to settle down, family is everything, etc. Whereupon Garza takes said partner out on a drug bust and, well take a wild guess. With the partner dead, the wife and daughter are never seen again. Garzas taken out for a drink by his commanding officer, who chides him very mildly for not waiting for backup. Garza eyes the fetching barmaid, and starts seeing her in slow motion. Not since David Al Hedison cheerfully invited  Timothy Dalton to go fishing mere days after his character, Felix Leiter, watched his own wife get eaten by a shark which also chomped off his own leg in License To Kill has a movie character shucked off tragedy so casually. But wait. Theres a  well I wouldnt say method to the plot beats concocted by directorco-writer  Enrique Begne and co-writers  Ted Perkins and Gabriel Ripstein staggeringly, the son of Mexican cinema giant Arturo Ripstein.  The barmaid and Garza end up together, in a family way, and then shes kidnapped by the same drug dealers who got his partner, and the U.S. feds get involved  Eric Roberts plays the head honcho. It's a big mess. Its an even bigger mess because the movie is so haphazardly edited. One understands the effect that Begnes aiming for flashing forward and backward in short order during certain scenes to highlight bits of information that are meant to pay off in aha!s for the viewer but the execution is staggeringly shoddy and stumbling. The ostensible humor diarrhea jokes, amputated-finger-of-a-corpse jokes, burning-people-alive jokes competes with plot complications thrown about willy-nilly. To make matters worse, the movie looks like it was color-corrected with the Hot Pink dial turned all the way up for the whole time. I know. There isnt really a Hot Pink dial on a color-correcting console. But you know what Im saying.  Eventually, the movie works up a weird fascination. At one point the viewer may be moved to ask, silently, of Chaparros Garza, Yes, sure, you left the pistol with which  Kevin Pollak was trying to kill himself in the trash can of the mens room of this diner. But now that the eccentric bad guys have shown up, dont you still have that huge Magnum you stole off of the Irish convenience store clerk with whom you had a fist fight  minutes ago? And so on. The answer was, Yes, but he must have forgotten, as he pulls it out in a later scene. As the movie resolves in a truly, um, unusual plot twist, I guess Im glad I stayed to the end. Well, actually, no. I only stayed to the end out of professional obligation. In another set of circumstances I could have not learned of the plot twist and had a perfectly fine remainder of my life.   