Particularly flawed in the long shadow of FXs brilliant The People vs OJ Simpson,  Rick Famuyiwas Confirmation, premiering on HBO tonight, has to be considered a notable disappointment. And yet its not overtly bad, per se. Its one of those movies thats easy to describe as fine. The performances are fine and some rise above that description. The production values are fine. The storytelling is fine. The direction? Fine, although youd never know as vibrant a filmmaker as Famuyiwa was behind the camera. The problem with all that "fine"? The story of Clarence Thomas and Anita Hill deserves more than fine. This is a fascinating political chapter with deep issues of race, gender and power to examine, but the production of Confirmation is satisfied with a superficial, then-this-happened approach to storytelling. If youre old enough to remember the uniqueness of an international story that involved pubic hair on Coke cans, you really know everything Confirmation has to tell you. With opening credits that remind one of the Bork Supreme Court nomination that failed under Reagan, Confirmation leads quickly into the selection by President George H.W. Bush of Clarence Thomas  Wendell Pierce to fill the seat vacated by Thurgood Marshall in . It looks likely that Thomas will be confirmed, especially after relatively successful meetings of the Senate Judiciary Committee, led by Joe Biden  Greg Kinnear. As the committees staff members are further investigating Thomas history, Ricki Seidman  Grace Gummer, an aide to Senator Edward Kennedy  Treat Williams, comes upon the story of Anita Hill  Kerry Washington, a former co-worker of Thomas, and she has a story to tell. In a rapid series of events and I did forget how quickly it all unfolded, we were all watching testimony about Long Dong Silver and what Thomas called a "high-tech lynching" on national television. How differently did the confirmation unfold because it was about an African-American man being questioned and an African-American woman not being taken seriously in front of a panel of white men? While this should clearly be the driving artistic question of "Confirmation," it's really only casually discussed in the context of a film too quick to get out the facts instead of asking what they meant to the national conversation. Instantly, Confirmation plays like that particular brand of TV melodrama in which people play real-life figures who seem to have a startling amount of self-awareness about their place in history. Did Anita Hill come forward after pressure related to the womens rights issues on which Thomas would likely vote on the Supreme Court? It probably came up, but almost certainly not in the TV movie way in which it does here. The film is weighed down with conversations that sound stilted and awkward, as if everyone knows theyre in a movie. When writer  Susannah Grant pauses for a character beat that feels spontaneous like Thomas listening to Onward, Christian Soldiers before testifying it stands out against a backdrop that just blurs into blandness.  To be clear, Im not even saying I disagree with the view of the ThomasHill as presented by Confirmation, but why recount Alan Simpsons grotesque promise of real harassment, not the sexual kind if youre not doing it for a purpose? Why bother if you cant find the nuance and the depth of character in this story? It almost feels like an obligation, like something that has been on an HBO whiteboard for a decade and just ended up being the best idea left. To be fair, the cast does a lot of heavy lifting for Grant and Famuyiwa. Washington deftly balances Hills pride with her fear over coming forward, and eventually tapping into her determination. Once she decided she had to say something, she wouldnt be stopped. Pierce gives a very interesting performance in that he never undermines Thomas stance. Theres no shameful look of recognition that maybe he did something wrong, creating an interesting dynamic in that both leads think theyre in the right.  Jeffrey Wright, as Charles Ogletree Hills lead attorney, and  Bill Irwin as John Danforth, Thomas friend and loudest supporter, remind viewers how much these two talented actors can do with very little. Ultimately, until its fascinating closing credits which draws the line from the Hill testimony to white men in government being replaced by women which finally captures the films tagline of It only takes one voice to change history Confirmation is pure text. Theres no greater context to the story and little subtext to what were watching. It is a recounting of events, which is historically important, but, as filmmaking, its just fine. 