One need not be proficient in  Rocky lore to appreciate Creed, but for those who have followed the exploits of  Sylvester Stallones Philadelphia boxer,  Ryan Cooglers latest film pays unexpectedly rich emotional dividends. Creed is so reminiscent of the  film that introduced us to Rocky Balboa that I sense newcomers will fall for Creeds characters the way viewers fell for Rockys  years ago.Though s Rocky Balboa was a fitting final chapter for its titular hero, Creed finds more of his story to explore. In the process, the film reminds us that, employed by the right director, Sylvester Stallone can be a wonderful actor. Cooglers story, co-written with  Aaron Covington, unabashedly mirrors the arc of the original Rocky. Theres the humble boxer, his mentor and the woman who becomes his significant other and rock of support. There is also the famous boxer who gives our hero the boxing match chance of a lifetime. Armed with these elements, Creed then tweaks them, playing on our expectations before occasionally surprising us. It may be easy to predict where the film takes us, but that doesnt reduce the power and enormity of the emotional responses it gets from the audience. This is a crowd-pleaser that takes its time building its character-driven universe. There are as many quietly effective moments as there are stand-up-and-cheer moments, and theyre all handled with skill and dexterity on both sides of the camera. Cooglers direction leaves little doubt that Creed is writing a love letter to Rocky lore while also establishing an original narrative about its own creation, Adonis Creed  Michael B. Jordan. Coogler perfectly captures his intentions in an early conversation between Rocky and Donnie as Adonis calls himself. Their talk is framed with Stallone and Jordan standing in front of a picture of Rocky and Adonis late father, Apollo Creed. Coogler fits his actors in the shot so that the background image serves as a flashback and a flash-forward' the screen contains Rockys past and Apollos future. Additionally, Stallones run-down physicality as the older version of Rocky stands in striking contrast to the boxer posing behind him, frozen in time. Were moving forward, but the ghosts of the past are still coming with us. Creed begins with Donnies past, where young, orphaned Adonis Johnson is visited in juvenile hall by Apollo Creeds widow, Mary Anne a fiercely maternal  Phylicia Rashad. Mary Anne adopts the young man, a product of an affair Apollo had before he was killed in the ring by Drago in Rocky IV. Though Mary Anne raises him as her own, Donnies resentment about being in the shadow of a famous man he never knew nor met grows as he ages. Yet he secretly engages in his fathers sport. Creed shows Donnie fighting in Mexico before returning to his office job in Los Angeles  hours later.   That Donnie has a white-collar job is interesting. Its the opposite of Rockys blue-collar existence, and it reminded me of a line in the boxing documentary  Champs, where an interview subject states that nobody rich ever took up boxing. Donnie has clearly benefited from the spoils of Apollos legacy, yet a childhood filled with scrapes with the law and constant fisticuffs leads him to quit his successful job for one where the odds for success are far more limited. Mary Anne points this out in an excellent speech where she details the more unsavory aspects of living with a boxer whose body took so much punishment that he could barely perform simple tasks like walking up stairs or cleaning himself. Donnie hears her, but the clarion call of the ring carries him off to Philly to seek out his Dads former rival and best friend, Rocky Balboa. Donnie hopes that Rocky will train him, and sets out to convince the reluctant ex-boxer to do so. But Rocky is simply not interested in becoming a mentor to the up and coming boxer who affectionately calls him Unc. Rockys lack of interest remains even after Donnie reveals that he is Apollo Creeds son. To bring new viewers up to speed, Rocky talks about the fight that cost Apollo his life, and how Rocky was in Apollos corner at the time. To return to the corner, even with a different boxer, is not on his list of things to do, partially out of guilt for Apollo, but mostly out of a general sense of exhaustion. I already had my time, he tells Donnie. Of course, Donnie wears him down and, despite some jealousy from a coach at Rockys late trainer Mickeys old gym who had hoped Rocky would train his son, Rocky takes on Donnies mentorship. This eventually leads to an offer to fight Liverpudlian boxing champ Pretty Ricky Conlan  Tony Bellew. In parallel, Donnie also pitches woo to his downstairs neighbor Bianca  Tessa Thompson, a hearing-impaired singer and composer whose loud music keeps Donnie from getting the required sleep he needs for his training. Like Rockys beloved Adrian, Bianca is a fully fleshed out character whose agency is not undermined by her eventual devotion to our hero. Thompson, so good in  Dear White People, is even better here, singing her own songs and verbally sparring with Jordan as quickly as the real-life boxers he faces throw punches at him. Coogler relishes his love story as much as his action sequences, basking in the glow of their romance. At one point, he employs an upside down shot of the duo, laying side by side and engaging in a quick kiss thats chaste yet sweetly romantic.A later romantic scene is far more passionate, and feels well-earned thanks to the prior one.   Creed reminds us that, even at its most absurd, the Rocky series has always been about loss. Specifically, how these losses affect the characters and how they grow from them. This is expressed in Biancas desire to make as much music as possible before her hearing loss becomes total and permanent, but its also reflected in the character of Rocky himself. The genesis of this film stems from the most absurd of the Rocky movies, yet Creed stitches Rocky IV and all the other Rocky films into its narrative with surefooted grace. The method to this madness is explained in a haunting, beautiful speech delivered by Stallone, who points out the consequences of his losses, both personal and professional, how alone he is due to the deaths of everyone he has loved, and how he no longer has the will to fight. Beforehand, we see Rocky visiting the graves of Adrian and Paulie on the latters tombstone, he places some booze, and the specter of Apollos death hangs over Creed. Rocky also tells Donnie that his son has little to do with him. Rockys big speech comes after a scene where he gets some bad news which Ill not spoil. Watch how subtly Stallone plays his reaction he turns the simple gesture of removing his hat into a powerful lament. Coogler loves the faces of his actors, to the point where he shoots one boxing match as an unbroken take focusing on his boxers punch-laden mugs. He also gets an achingly beautiful and subtle commentary out of brief shots of young, brown faces looking at and admiring Donnie as he trains. Like Rocky, Donnie may be a hero for all races, but these shots of young Black children add an extra dimension by showing us rare instances of African-American admiration of a hero onscreen. Creed is at its most effective when Cooglers camera stands by, patiently letting his actors connect with us. He favors shots where two actors occupy the screen, taking care to calibrate the space between them. As a result, we become intimately familiar with the lovely young visages of Jordan and Thompson, and the gloriously craggy face of Stallone, whose once equally youthful appearance has grown and aged like the faces of those of us who were present for his first turn as Rocky Balboa. Stallone brings us back to his first, Oscar-nominated turn as Rocky, and his intimate knowledge of his character shines through in every frame. He is really, really good here.   Creed gives us a new hero, and Jordan is excellent at portraying him. The star, who worked with Coogler on the superb  Fruitvale Station, conveys the confusion that many young people have while forging and accepting their identities. The moment he owns up to his heritage is intertwined with the films rousing, climactic boxing match but does not depend on it as a means of Donnies acceptance. Coogler is masterful in these shots of sportsmanship, stirring the audience into a frenzy of excitement, and he knows exactly when to shamelessly plug in Gonna Fly Now. Donnie Creed also gets his own version of Rockys triumphant Philadelphia Museum stairs runscene, re-imagined here as a street jog surrounded by motorcycles. Its absolutely breathtaking. Note where Coogler places Stallone in this sequence, as it is the most visual representation of what his film is doing with these characters. Speaking of the Philadelphia Museum, Creed ends there with a scene guaranteed to wring a bucket of tears from fans of Rocky Balboa. I wouldnt dream of spoiling the reasons why Creed ends here, nor will I say whos in the scene. But I will tell you this: The last shot of this film is a true thing of beauty. This is one of the best films of . 