There was a time when a sequel to s Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon would have been a major cinematic event. After all,  Ang Lees film not only won four Oscars but is the highest-grossing foreign language film of all time in the United States, making over  million stateside and over  million worldwide. The fact that the sequel is opening in only a few theaters across the country and that most people will watch it on Netflix says a great deal about the current state of foreign language films more than it should indicate to viewers that this is some sort of straight-to-video, cheapie sequel and it should be noted that the film made over  million theatrically in its first week of release in China. We are rapidly headed to a time when foreign language films and documentaries will only be seen on streaming services like Netflix. In fact, with the highest-grossing live-action foreign language film of  bringing in a paltry . million A La Mala and Sony burying last weeks release of  Stephen Chows  The Mermaid, it feels like we may be there already. All of this is designed to explain why Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon: Sword of Destiny has been shuffled off to Netflix as unceremoniously as The Ridiculous Six there were no advance press screenings and rumors of canceled advance public screenings.  Harvey Weinstein and those at his company know that Netflix is actually the best way to get a film like this to a mass audience. More people will see it this way than ever would with an arthouse and DVD release as its now on the front page of the service more and more people use to watch film every single day. But its both a blessing and a curse. While it will reach a bigger audience, many cinephiles wrote it off before even seeing it because of the way its being delivered to viewers. While its not the breakthrough film that will change the way we appreciate Netflix premieres and, trust me, that day will inevitably come it is a step in the right direction, a well-made, confident piece of entertainment that lacks the poetry and nuance of the first film and gets less interesting as its narrative thinness is revealed but never feels like something thats being phoned in to make a quick buck. Working from a book in the same series as and by the same author of the original called Iron Knight, Silver Vase, Yuen Woo-pings film picks up twenty years after the last film. Yu Shu Lien the great Michelle Yeoh learns that a warlord named Hades Dai  Jason Scott Lee has been leaving bodies in his wake as he seeks a legendary sword, the Green Destiny, which is being held by Shu Lien. She is forced to call in her former Iron Way colleagues, including Silent Wolf  Donnie Yen, a former lover of Shu Liens who she thought dead. That romantic entanglement is balanced by a younger one between Wei-fan Harry Shum Jr. and Snow Vase Natasha Liu Bordizzo. Wei-fan tries to break into Shu Liens compound to steal the sword but is captured by Snow Vase, who is training with Shu Lien. Writer  John Fusco TVs Marco Polo may not have been the right man for this particular job. Written and performed in English, the script lacks the wonder and sense of history that the first film carried, too often feeling like a series of poor excuses to get us from one fight scene to another. While the production design by Grant Major  The Lord of the Rings, Yeohs timeless charisma, and the fight choreography carries the film over its first act, when characters start saying things like We drink to remember and it seems you drink to forget, the cheap screenwriting starts to drag the film down. Its around this point that you also realize that Dai isnt much of a villain and that the newcomers are a little dull.   And yet Yuens sense of scope and skill with fluid fight direction and framing holds the piece together more than a typical, way-too-late sequel. Of course, Yuen was the fight choreographer not just on the original film but for  The Matrix, Kill Bill,  Kung Fu Hustle, and many more and directed the  Iron Monkey movies, among others. He knows how to handle the fluid, balletic combat sequences, including a great multi-character melee at a tavern and a climactic fight scene, captured well by cinematographer Newton Thomas Sigel  Drive. Theres an undeniable bit of cultural disconnect through Sword of Destiny English language awkwardness, the fact that it looks like it was shot in New Zealand which it was that will be enough for some hardcore martial arts fans to dismiss it entirely. Its also easy to believe that theres a longer, better cut in a vault somewhere this is Weinstein after all, and, well,  The Grandmaster happened, but response to Sword of Destiny is likely to come down to expectation more than anything else and awareness that the reason this isnt in a theater near you is more due to the state of the market than the quality of the film. 