Look at that cast. How could that possibly go wrong? John Malkovich,  Billy Bob Thornton,  Michael Stuhlbarg,  Bruce Dern and  Oliver Platt are starring in a Coen-esque thriller about murder in a small town? Where do I get in line to buy a ticket? Sadly, Cut Bank is another piece of evidence that proves the case that filmmaking is not the sum of its parts. And while theres some undeniably inherent joy in just seeing some of these great actors play off each other, the sum here is a shockingly dull affair, almost made more disappointing by the talent it wastes. It is also evidence in another film criticism case the one that proves that the balance of crime and comedy that the Coens defined for so many copycats in films like  Fargo and No Country For Old Men is significantly harder to pull off than some people think it looks. Not a lot happens in Cut Bank, Montana, a small town with the claim to fame of being the coldest in the United States. In fact, experienced Sheriff Vogel Malkovich has never seen a murder. Of course, thats about to change. Town hunk Dwayne McLaren  Liam Hemsworth is filming his girlfriend Cassandra  Teresa Palmer in their favorite spot in town when a car pulls up in the background and he captures a murder on tape. Town mailman Georgie Wits Dern has been killed. Or has he? And nothing matters more to town recluse Derby Milton Stuhlbarg other than the fact that a parcel he has been waiting on has gone missing with the mailmans murder. Hell do anything to get it back.  From the beginning, Cut Bank isnt just tonally inconsistent, it doesnt really have one. Its flat. Theres no sense of rhythm, tension, or atmosphere. Thornton, in particular, sounds like hes reciting lines he just learned, and Hemsworth is as flat as they come as the protagonist. He doesnt respond to acts of violence like a normal human being would. Theres nothing organic here. And that makes for a giant vacuum in the middle of the piece since, technically, Dwayne is supposed to be the leading man, although its crystal clear that even director  Matt Shakman and writer  Roberto Patino are more interested in the rest of the colorful characters than dull Dwayne. To that end, there are scenes that work, such as Malkovich and Platt at the best steakhouse in town and an encounter between Stuhlbarg and an imposing Native-American that he thinks has his p-p-p-parcel.  What keeps sinking Cut Bank is that these moments of personality stand out against a field of gray. This film is lifeless, as if Shakman and Patino are going for deadpan comedy and only getting the dead part of it. Malkovich escapes the best, finding a bit of truth in the Tommy Lee Jones from No Country part as a small-town lawman depressed by the fact that he couldnt keep violence from his life until its natural end. Theres an honest sadness in Malkovichs performance that one doesnt often see in thrillers, and its a moving, relatable human emotion on which to hold while watching Cut Bank. The problem is that its the only one. 