This movie is a tricky proposition for this reviewer, who also reviewed the first Daddys Home movie back in . The good news is that I found the sequel better than the original the writing sharper, the jokes fresher and smarter, the comic interaction between the lead characters consistently engaging. I mentioned this to my incredulous wife, who said, So youre saying its the Godfather, Part  of the Daddys Home series. Im not sure if she was being sarcastic or not.  Heres the tricky part. One reason I wasnt crazy about Daddys Home was the relentless onslaught of edgy jokes in bad taste. This picture tones that down. There are, indeed, fewer jokes at the expense of kids in wheelchairs, and of dogs with open sores and mange. This, to me, is an improvement. But what if you, the reader, actually LIKE jokes about handicapped children and disgustingly pitiable sick dogs? You see the problem.   As for what Daddys Home  does have, its an expansion of the family dynamic of the first film, which anyone familiar with the Meet the Parents films will recognize as an added-star-power strategy. In the post Daddys Home alliance between cool-bro dad Dusty  Mark Wahlberg and winsome wimp stepdad Brad  Will Ferrell, a little discontent must fall. Here it arrives in the persons of granddads. Dustys pop is alpha-male ex-astronaut Kurt, played by  Mel Gibson. Brads dad, Don, is a motormouth ultra-limp noodle with a liking for improv comedy, played by  John Lithgow. Both granddads arrive at the airport simultaneously, and macho Kurt, who hasnt seen Dusty in years, is hard-pressed to contain his disgust at the co-dad arrangement Dusty and Brad seem so happy in.  Surely the two very different personalities still, as one of the characters puts it, harbor some resentment toward each other. The use and misuse of the word harbor becomes a semi-running joke, an almost sophisticated bit of linguistic humor that would absolutely not have floated in the first film. Kurt is at first passive-aggressive renting a house near a ski resort to better facilitate a together Christmas in the hopes of driving a wedge into Dusty and Brads relationship and then just aggressive, encouraging one of Dustys biological children to take up turkey hunting. There are scenes in which both the two dads and the two granddads offer advice and strategies on ten-year-old or so Dylans emerging interest in girls, and later his ineptitude at bowling. Brads own slapstick ineptitude is highlighted when a runaway snowblower destroys a Christmas decoration display. Its all pretty amiable and funny, and further intrigue is provided by Dustys new wife, Karen, a snooty author with supermodel looks and a snootier daughter, Adrianna, an age peer of Dylan and Megan, Dustys kids by  Linda Cardellinis Sarah. Cardellini is given a little more to do in this picture than the first one, and thats a plus too.  Youll laugh, a friendly publicist assured me on my way into the theater, and I did. Not a huge amount, but enough that I have to adhere to our founder Rogers rule of comedy assessment, which, most simply put, is that if a comedy made you laugh it did its job and you cant front about it. I do have to admit I laughed a little less many of the times Gibson was on screen. I praised his work in last years tough action thriller  Blood Father, in which he was very credible as a former criminal struggling with his demons as he tries to protect a wayward daughter. But watching him try to play a bullying character for laughs here left a bad taste in my mouth. His character here is a relentless womanizer, consistently targeting younger women. Knowing how this guy reacts in real life when he feels crossed by a younger girlfriend made it difficult for me to be amused by his portrayal of a grandfather who attempts to entertain some ten-year-olds by starting a joke So two dead hookers wash up on shore And so on.  Your mileage may vary, and Im sure Ill hear about how it does in the comments.   