While I generally enjoy the Anchorman movies and other such films starring  Will Ferrell and directed by  Adam McKay, I really never thought Id look at another movie and say that I missed the smooth comedic tone of such pictures. But Daddys Home, starring Ferrell and  Mark Wahlberg, co-executive produced by  McKay, and, apparently crucial difference here, directed by  Sean Anders, is such a hit-and-miss mess that it makes the wild-and-crazy-to-the-point-of-sometimes-flailing tenor of Anchorman and other such Ferrell vehicles feel like finely-tuned Logitech vehicles. The setup is familiar, predictable' Ferrell plays a simpering, good-hearted wimp and square, Brad Whitaker, stepfather to two adorable moppets who is soon obliged to compete with their ultra-cool biological father Dusty Mark Wahlberg, whos more aggressive in his passive aggressiveness than is customary. Hes got a leg up on Brad already in that the kids make no attempts to conceal their contempt for by-the-parenting book Brad. Although Brad isnt the only one here whos by-the-book. From the automatic nostalgia-inducing college-rock opening-credits song The Pixies Here Comes Your Man to the part when were expected to laugh at a seven-year-old-girl saying I think its sweet that hes crying like a bitch," the movie is entirely rote in its opportunistic cynicism. Director Anders, who takes a co-writing credit here with  John Morris and  Brian Burns, is also a brain behind such fare as Were The Millers and  Horrible Bosses . What he brings to the table is neither particularly pleasant nor funny. For instance, theres a scene in the films last third, after Brad determines to turn the tables on Dusty, whos previously been undermining Brad by showing off his handyman skills and saddling him with a pet for the kids, a junkyard dog named Tumor. Brad scores tickets to a Lakers game this movie takes place in a universe in which Kobe Bryant, who cameos, is still the idol of millions rather than a sad reminder of the ego-over-substance state of contemporary professional basketball, gets drunk, and gets picked to shoot from the free-throw line at half time. The setup for the joke that follows is that theres a group of children in wheelchairs sitting at courtside. Yes, Daddys Home goes there. No, its not funny. Also not funny: the film casts  Linda Cardellini as Brad's wife Sarah, and gives her nothing to do except wear swanky clothes and look concerned at Brad, except for one scene set at a fertility clinic in which shes obliged to look yearningly at Dustys genitals. Long story. Despite Wahlberg and Ferrell clearly having the goods to bring some solid comic interplay to the project, theyre not together on screen for more than a minute or so before some labored sight gag is dragged in to shut them down. Things pick up in any scene featuring  Thomas Haden Church andor Hannibal Burress. Church plays the manager of The Panda, a smooth-jazz radio station where Brad works' hes always dispensing idiotically profane advice or telling idiotically profane stories. Ferrells deadpan responses are always spot-on. A colleague said, on exiting the screening, that he would have been delighted by a movie that had been entirely set at The Panda.  Hannibal Buress, as a contractor hired and then fired by Brad as a result of his letting Dusty get inside his head, as Cardellini's character warned him, is also very funny after hes adopted by Dusty and given a bunk at the increasingly crowded Whitaker household. These two actors provide a sense of What Might Have Been, to the extent that I suspect, or perhaps would just like to believe, that the lions share of their work was improvised. Because, unlike the stuff Anders obliges his performers to do which, again, I intuit is the stuff that most resembles Were The Millers it actually is funny. As is, I admit, the movies finale, which arrives after the whole scenario has delivered its five minutes of earnestness, to cut into the approximately eighty minutes of more or less utter crude sourness that preceded. 