Ive been trying to think when there was a historical drama I found as electrifying as  Joe Wrights Darkest Hour. It may have been  Steven Spielbergs  Munich, which topped my -best list a dozen years ago. They are very different films, of course, and it could be that Wrights boasts stellar accomplishments in more departments. While  Gary Oldmans phenomenal work as Winston Churchill had been heralded in advance, it is astonishingly equaled by the films achievements in direction, screenwriting, score and cinematography.   Its a strange irony that the same patch of British history a few days in the spring of  has been treated in two big, Oscar-aimed  movies and even plays a role in a third film from earlier this year,  Their Finest. In various ways, Wrights film and  Christopher Nolans  Dunkirk are instructive companion pieces, with different aims that effectively orient them toward different audiences. Dunkirk imagines the evacuation of British troops under the onslaught of Nazi forces in a way that puts sensation over sense' it says nothing of the events historical context or import. Indeed, it could have been made with all action and no words, where Darkest Hour is all about words, words-as-action and this seminal events meaning to our world. It asks you to engage intellectually, not just viscerally.  But if its a history lesson, its one that plays like a tightly wound, pulse-pounding thriller. And why not: the decisions it depicts may have determined the fate of the world. The action takes place from May  to June ,  the film regularly slams the dates at us in big block letters, and is framed by two important addresses in the House of Commons, the Norway Debate and Churchills rousing, epochal We shall fight them on the beaches speech. In between, Churchill becomes Prime Minister, because hes the only member of his party acceptable to the opposition, and then rallies the country to fight Hitler when other politicians want to strike a deal with him.  Understanding the importance of this storys events is not terribly easy now because its difficult to look at the world of  as people did then. The Germans may have subjugated several European countries, but the coming slaughter of the continents Jews was still unsuspected, and Hitler was widely seen as a very effective authoritarian ruler a quality that some non-Germans beset with dithering democrats frankly admired rather than a murderous madman. Churchills virtue in this moment was to see the truth more clearly than others did, and to understand both the absolute necessity and the arduous difficulty of fighting the Nazi regime to the death.     The films title is entirely accurate. With the Germans threatening to obliterate Britains army prior to the Dunkirk evacuation which is alluded to rather than shown here, and Churchill soon to hear Franklin Roosevelt decline to help the Brits due to the anti-interventionist sentiment in Congress, the United Kingdom was at a very dark and lonely place indeed. Its no wonder that Churchills main opponents in this drama, Neville Chamberlain  Ronald Pickup and Lord Halifax  Stephen Dillane, encouraged having Mussolini negotiate a deal with Hitler that might have spared Britain from invasion and potential mass slaughter. Even King George VI  Ben Mendelsohn, before being won over to Churchills viewpoint, was amenable to dealing with the devil.  The Winston Churchill we see here is no cartoon hero or plaster saint. As the recent, wretched  Churchill which was as roundly denounced by historians and Churchill experts as Darkest Hour has been praised did, Wrights film notes the dark stain on the leaders public career that the battle of Gallipoli in World War I represented, but doesnt make it a psychological millstone. Darkest Hour likewise frequently shows us its protagonist from the viewpoints of his acerbic though supportive wife, Clemmie the brilliant  Kristin Scott Thomas, and his young, endlessly put-upon secretary, Elizabeth  Lily James. Yet the freshness of this films portrayal begins with the dramatic sharpness and historical intelligence of  Anthony McCartens script, which gives us a Churchill who is drawn into dynamic action by the looming shadow of Hitlers evil.  After charting the perilous political waters, he must navigate to gain the support of his war cabinet, the film climaxes with a sublime invention: a scene in which Churchill, on the way to Parliament, bounds out of his traffic-bound limousine, hops on the Underground and listens to a car full of average Londoners voice their support for his war aims. As corny as this may sound, its an entirely appropriate way of registering the kind of popular backing, even affection, that Churchill enjoyed during wartime he was voted out of office as soon as the war ended, and it works in part due to the spunky charm and thoroughgoing excellence of Gary Oldmans performance, which deserves every award it will inevitably win.     A kindred excellence characterizes the striking collaboration between Joe Wright and cinematographer  Bruno Delbonnel, who together give the film a very nuanced and engaging balance of light and shadow, eloquent movement and meditative stasis. For my money, Delbonnels work surpasses even Dunkirk to emerge as the best cinematography of the year so far. Wrights team also benefits from the understated lyricism of  Dario Marianellis score.  The events leading up to the charged drama we see in Darkest Hour have not been totally forgotten, of course. The name of Neville Chamberlain, Churchills predecessor, will forever be associated with the term appeasement, which these days hardliners use at every opportunity to denounce attempts to negotiate with objectionable regimes and rulers. But Wrights film indirectly makes the point that not every tinpot dictator is a Hitler nor is every posturing, hawkish politician a Churchill. Certain times and men are indeed exceptional, which is why a movie like Darkest Hour itself stands apart from more routine historical dramas. 