Gillian Flynns script for David Finchers incredible adaptation of  Gone Girl was a master class in genre, taking an admittedly ridiculous, twisting and turning narrative and making its plot holes forgivable through sheer force of entertainment value. It makes sense that another of Flynns novels, the sinister Dark Places, would get the cinematic treatment as well, although this failed exercise could be used comparatively with Gone Girl as a What Not to Do cinematic lesson. Whereas Fincher and Flynn brought style and flair to the saga of Amazing Amy, writerdirector Gilles Paquet-Brenner presents a drab, dull, uninspired affair, enlivened only slightly by the talented cast assembled. Failing to find a visual language for the piece that reaches beyond a Lifetime TV Movie and adapting the material in such a way that makes her protagonist largely inactive in her own story, Paquet-Brenner only makes the already-underrated Gone Girl look even more accomplished. When she was only seven, Libby Day  Sterling Jerins suffered the unimaginable. Her entire family was murdered in a shotgun rampage like something out of  In Cold Blood. In fact, the murders earned that kind of international attention, especially after Libbys brother Ben  Tye Sheridan was arrested and sentenced for them. Accused of dabbling in Satanism, Ben was convicted on little evidence, and true crime nuts have been convinced for years that there was more to the Day murders. Of course, there was, because, well, theres no movie otherwise. Bitter and hardened by life, grown Libby  Charlize Theron hasnt been in touch with her incarcerated brother played by  Corey Stoll older since the crimes. Thats when shes contacted by Lyle Wirth  Nicholas Hoult, a member of a true crime club that collects items and information from bloodbaths around the country. He convinces the broke Libby to tell her story to the club, and she needs the cash enough to do so. Of course, Lyle has ulterior motives, convinced that Ben is innocent, and he eventually talks Libby into digging deeper into what really happened that night.  Both narratives the current-day investigation and the days leading up to the murder years earlier are intercut in this murky, unrefined screenplay that piles up narrative and twists without ever considering the pieces deadly lack of characters. Theron does her brooding best to make Libby three-dimensional, but, and this could be partly the fault of the source material, she is almost always merely a listener to someone presenting more details about her past or entirely absent in the extensive flashbacks. Consequently, Dark Places is a film without a protagonist, akin to watching recreated footage on Dateline NBC, as each flashback or revelatory conversation fills in a few more details of the overheated story without giving us a reason to care about it in the first place. Poor Theron wanders through a narrative designed around reveals' so shes either remembering things she couldnt have possibly known about or hearing about things she should have figured out a long time ago. As he often has lately, Corey Stoll actually makes out the best in a few crucial scenes as the older Ben, and Hoult certainly isnt bad even if his character, like so many of them, feels like a plot device.    All of this leads to a distinct lack of urgency in Dark Places, which makes the dour, depressing subject matter that much harder to enjoy. It's a checklist of awful things that can happen to a Middle American family. The Day matriarch  Christina Hendricks is afraid of losing the farm, their dad a suspect in the murders is missing, Satanism threatens to entice young Ben, the kid is accused of child abuse, drugs, teenage pregnancy the whole thing verges on poverty porn given the lack of genre escapism provided. We needed a reason to wallow in the dark places of Libby Days horrible life to make the cinematic journey worthwhile. No one involved in the production of Dark Places ever asked a crucial question: Why should we care? .