Dean is a movie that very clearly came from humane and compassionate impulses. This is particularly evident during the final third of the film, during which the principal characters reluctantly shed their defensive quirks and face up to the issues of grief and loss that have been dogging them throughout the movie.   That said, Dean is also a movie with which it is easy to find fault, and if youre a particular kind of person, youll find fault with it without even trying too hard. The movie is the directorial debut of  Demetri Martin. Demetri Martin of the floppy Beatles-esque haircut which hes still rocking at , an age at which those Beatles that survived to that age had rethunk their tonsorial stylings more than once and the wry jokes and the minimalist visual-pun cartoons and the demeanor so relentlessly quiet-hipster-twee that he makes  Wes Anderson look like Ozzy Osbourne. Said demeanor is on full display here, as Martin, of course, also stars in his directorial debut, which he also wrote.    The movie opens with the writerdirectorstar standing at a gravesite with  Kevin Kline. Kline and Martin play father and son, and the grave is that of the wife of Klines Robert and mother of Martins Dean. Yes, of course Martin plays the title character. Robert is an engineer Dean observes of him that every crisis he encounters represents a problem to be practically solved while Dean is a cartoonist who lives, youll never guess, in Brooklyn, one of the nice leafy brownstone neighborhoods rather than the beardo-infested environs of Williamsburg or some such, so I guess that makes some kind of difference.   Father and son are handling loss in their own way. Robert wants to sell his suburban house the flight instinct, which sets Dean right off what about his memories, his share in the house, which he seems not to have contributed to the mortgage payments on, but never mind. Deans way of dealing had begun when his mom had gotten sick. Hoping to demonstrate that he was on a lifes path that would please her, he ill-advisedly got engaged to a woman he had not been ready to commit to. Now the mother has died, the engagement is off, and Dean is acting out passive-aggressively against his ex-girlfriend, against the best friend at whose wedding he makes an ass of himself, and against his father and his house-selling scheme, which he tries to duck by flying out to Los Angeles on a faux-business trip. There he has an awful meeting with some super-miserable Internet bros one of whom is played by  Beck Bennett of SNL, and a cute meeting with Nicky, an attractive young woman he embarrasses himself in front of at one of those parties where the East Coast guy discovers that all his friends whove moved to California have become self-absorbed monsters.  I know what youre thinking: wait, isnt this  Garden State with the geographics reversed? And arent we so over the alienated-guy-meets-you-know-what-kind-of-uplifting-female-character scenario?  Well, sort of, and sort of. Martins Dean is certainly sardonic in his anti-macho way I cant bring myself to work with people who call themselves creatives is one of the Dean apercus meant to elicit a knowing chuckle from his target demo, and his forlorn qualities are hardly unfamiliar. As for  Gillian Jacobs Nicky, her appeal does have a certain pixieish quality. There seems to be an inevitability to the NickyDean pairing thats paralleled across the country in a storyline that finds Klines dad getting intrigued by  Mary Steenburgens Carol, a real-estate agent whos helping with the under-protest-from-Dean house sale. Where the movie becomes worthwhile is at the point when the storyline puts up the speed bumps to the happy ending.     If you are not someone who finds Martin and his humor and that humors milieu appealing to begin with, the evolution of the scenario might strike you as too little too late. As for Martins directing, its reasonably deft and coherent. Having experienced the unexpected death of a parent in recent years, I did recognize some of this movies truths about loss and coping. I was also a little resentful of Martins character, who does not gain forty pounds after his mother dies, but thats neither here nor there. The movies final scenes, in which Dean stops his defensive wisecracking and struggles to sincerely communicate the maelstrom of emotions with which hes struggled, struck me as both well-observed and genuinely kind. Kindness is a quality thats in short supply in todays culture, and the display of it in the films last half hour made me want to be kinder to this movie than the first hour had inclined me to be. Take that for what you will.   