In most respects an energetic and tidy caper comedy, Deidra amp' Laney Rob a Train gains some novelty value by dint of its robbery being committed by high school girls. This reasonably engaging picture is being pushed as a kind of diversity-prioritizing indie comedy as opposed to the YA film it really is, for reasons not entirely clear to me. I suppose that since it doesnt push a crime does not pay agenda particularly hard, if at all, theres a bit of trepidation concerning parental disapproval over Lack of Message.     Despite said lack of message, theres no lack of positive progressive thrust here. Deidra  Ashleigh Murray and Laney  Rachel Crow are African-American teen sisters who lead a harried life. Older Deidra is soon to be class valedictorian, and aside from excelling scholastically she also has a sideline in selling Good Homework to less intellectually astute classmates. This is particularly useful since the kids live in a single-parent home right by the railroad tracks in an Idaho suburb, and the side of the tracks theyre on is the poorer one. One bright afternoon their mom has an unexplained freakout in the parking lot of the Good Buy store where she works, and her employers deem her a domestic terrorist on arrest, meaning, among other things, a pretty steep bail. After a less-than-satisfactory visit to the rail yard where her deadbeat and dumb dad works Deidra hits on a train-robbing scheme. Laney, whos having a bad case of middle-kid-insecurity syndrome the third kid, Jet, is a quiet young un, on the gender-ambiguous side, and good natured enough when playing with beloved toys balks. For one thing, theres the danger, then the illegality, then the fact that shes freaked out enough by the fact that shes been made a teen beauty pageant contestant against her will. But soon, with mom in stir and dad not better for more than thirteen bucks, the food runs out and the electricity is about to get turned off. Caper on, with the help of Deidras ex-steady, whom she dumped because he was dealing pot. He doesnt hesitate to rub that in Deidras face before signing on to help her filch goods from any given trains containers.    This all sounds pretty squalid in the course of a written plot description, but the movie is almost unfailingly sunny and bouncy in its tone. Its the kind of picture in which, faced with starvation, the protagonists can nevertheless afford a lot of construction paper on which to map their Train Rules and make a fancy Moms Bail Tote Board to chart their criminal process. In its commitment to showing smart, plucky, take-no-nonsense teens of color being ingenious and boundary-breaking, its commendable. Director  Sydney Freeland enjoys a well-composed frame and also likes the nifty post-production gee-gaws by which one can seamlessly superimpose logos like Cancellation and Past Due on the sides of mailboxes during economic crisis scenes, not to mention frame-within-frame effects when deadbeat dad shows Deidra a clip of him on the teevee news that hes astonished can be shrunk down to fit on his phone. Theres a color-coordination sight gag early on that  Wes Anderson might have thought nifty as a teen, but one cant complain about that too much for obvious reasons.    Even when the railroad cop who wants to bust the heists open shows up, the movies tone remains buoyant. Thats partly because, as played by Tim  Blake Nelson, the cop is a pompous, vaping figure of fun. All of the performers, including young Ashleigh Murray and Rachel Crow as the teen heroines, are lively and fun to watch.  Sasheer Zamata and  Missi Pyle are both amusing, albeit a little broad, as high school authorities who Only Want To Help and prove fairly ineffectual in that respect. As right-minded and good-hearted as the movie is, it cant steer clear of certain clichs there is a catfight at the aforementioned teen pageant, although to the filmmakers credit its broken up quickly. Not to push for Girl Power Solidarity but to get back to the heist storyline. Which is resolved pretty craftily. For a YA movie.    