Joe Pescis infamous You think Im funny? scene in  Martin Scorseses  landmark,  Goodfellas, will be remembered chiefly for earning the actor a well-deserved Oscar. His character, Tommy DeVito, is a monster of such fearsome volatility that he turns roomfuls of strangers into appreciative studio audiences, eliciting canned laughter fueled entirely by self-preservation. They laugh, so that they may not get bumped off. One of the greatest masterstrokes of the scene is its use of wide angles, enabling us to survey the faces of various bystanders, whose expressions morph from amusement to grim seriousness, as DeVito cheerfully plays their emotions like a piano. I was frequently reminded of this sequence while watching  Camilla Nielssons riveting, ultimately enraging Zimbabwe-set documentary, Democrats. It charts the three-year process in which the parliamentary committee, COPAC, was tasked with drafting a constitution that would allegedly bring democratic laws to their nations dictatorship ruled by President Robert Mugabe. Though Mugabe is largely left offscreen, he makes two key appearances that bookend the picture, and its here where Nielssons depiction of Zimbabwe most strikingly mirrors Scorseses portrayal of the restaurant where DeVito dines in Goodfellas. Though Mugabe addresses crowds of citizens with a pleasant, almost fatherly demeanor, he slides in declarations of his own power and dominance that trigger riotous guffaws of support from the submissive audience. Its not for nothing that Mugabe leaves the podium after a speech early in the film, before quipping, I forgot to launch the thing the thing being the gathering process that will compile the views of Zimbabweans to be incorporated in the Constitution. Clearly, Mugabe has little regard for any views other than his own. A pre-title montage skims all-too-briefly over the crimes Mugabe has committed against his own people, including the ethnic cleansing that claimed at least , lives between  and . At the forefront of Nielssons focus are the chief negotiators selected to draft the Constitution: Douglas Mwonzora, a human rights lawyer from the opposition party, MDC-T, and Paul Mangwana, a lawyer and unequivocal yes man from Mugabes party, ZANU-PF. Theres a great deal about these men that can be perceived purely through their body language. Mwonzora remains a stoic figure throughout, even after being jailed for three weeks in yet another feeble governmental attempt at intimidation. His composure is cool and collected, while his eyes remain fixed on the glimmer of freedom starting to materialize on the horizon. Yet for Mangwana, that glimmer is nothing more than a mirage. The pervasive laughter rupturing from his mouth suggests that he knows the notion of democracy in Zimbabwe is a farce. The game of politics is pretending, he admits to the camera, and later reveals his belief that any attempt at subverting Mugabes system is useless. How Nielsson could capture such honest responses from a man whose very life depends on his ability to deceive is one of the films lingering mysteries. Theres an irony here worthy of Catch  in the idea of people being expected to speak their minds in a country that has continuously ordered them to keep their mouths shut. As Mwonzora journeys to various public events and surveys the opinions of citizens, he finds them voicing identical views in favor of Mugabe there are also shades here of The Manchurian Candidate. Mangwana lets out his standard chortle upon hearing that a meeting of Zimbabweans was preceded by a prayer warning them against opposing Mugabe. Any Catholic whos had to endure a homily about the sinfulness of voting for a pro-choice candidate will undoubtedly be able to relate. Yet Mangwanas smile fades once members of the public finally begin to speak out, championing progressive policies that cause him to sulk in his car, looking profoundly miserable. After a clause is discreetly inserted into the Constitutional draft, reportedly by the drafters, that disqualifies the incumbent by limiting his leadership to ten years Mugabe has been President since  and was elected Prime Minister in , Mangwanas tone changes entirely, verging into outright desperation. Suddenly, he finds himself in the crosshairs of his own party, and reports of attempted assassinations followed. If his own agenda wasn't so despicable, hed be downright sympathetic.   Democrats won the Best Documentary prize at this years Tribeca Film Festival, and its easy to see why viewers were so taken with it. The films question of how democracy can be achieved in a rigged system is especially timely, considering how Americas corporate powers have caused countless citizens to feel as if their voices have been silenced. Whats lacking from the film is any substantial exploration of the Constitution itself, and the democratic laws that wouldve made it a game-changer in Zimbabwe, had any of them been put into effect. Though a sequence late in the film hints at Mwonzora and Mangwana developing a semblance of teamwork while completing the final draft, we dont get a good enough sense of how this occurred or how it impacted their work. Regardless, the films final moments are shattering, affirming the futility of their efforts amidst the hollow laughter of the oppressed. Its no surprise that Mangwanas brother, Nick, ZABU-PFs U.K. chairman, has  dismissed the film as a sitcom designed to demonize his party. Id sure love to see his rebuttal video. 