Go through hell and look cool doing it. Thats the vibe I got from the poster for "Demolition," which uses a neatly quartered with one segment slightly askew portrait of its male lead,  Jake Gyllenhaal, sporting expensive shades and wearing expensive headphones. Is that an overly simplistic reading of the actual film? Yes. But its also true that the movie, costarring Naomi Watts and directed by  Jean-Marc Valle, doesnt exactly shy away from those semiotics.  Demolition opens with Gyllenhaals Davis Mitchell and wife Julia  Heather Lind driving around New York City and having what seems to be a tetchy power-couple morning. Hes preoccupied, shes frustrated, and theyre on a phone call with her parents. The viewer cant get a read on the marriage: its strained is a good guess, but whether its truly crummy or just circumstantially challenged is impossible to tell. Speculation becomes moot when an auto accident leaves Julia dead and Davis without a scratch.  Davis is zombied out. He cant get an Mamp'Ms bag from the hospitals vending machine, and he writes an uncharacteristically confessional letter to the vending machines parent company. He cant cry at his wifes funeral. His father-in-law Phil  Chris Cooper, whos also his boss at a financial shark tank, advises him to take apart his life and reexamine it. Davis, whos also found that he can no longer lie effectively, takes this counsel literally, and begins to physically dismantle various appliances. And he continues pouring whats left of his heart out to vending machine customer service, whose human form is that of Naomi Watts. If Davis prior life was a cold slate-grey corporate mess, the life of Watts' Karen is a lukewarm, pot-haze suffused suburban one, complete with a teen son  Judah Lewis whos a handful of rock and roll attitude. You can tell the extent to which this whole movies narrative and its attendant lessons are big time bits of boomer wish fulfillment contrivance by the fact that it offers up, in this day and age, a fifteen-year-old whos obsessively into Eric Burdon, David Bowie, and vintage Free. The kid, of course, becomes an eager accomplice as Davis, looking for answers, takes down his entire house. In which he does, indeed, discover an important clue.  The yuppie-finding-his-soul scenario is a very old and not particularly compelling one, and the fact that this film borrows elements from  Regarding Henry,  American Beauty, Saul Bellows Herzog, and the Jim Carrey Liar, Liar, for heavens sake, does not exactly redound to its benefit.  However, Valle directs with no small amount of verve and energy, as if he genuinely believes he can bring something new to this particular table. The actors show similar commitment, with Gyllenhaal conveying inner emptiness andor confusion in a smartly understated way. While Watts is reliably vulnerable, its Judah Lewis as her son Chris who does the heavier emotional lifting. The scenario does contain a couple of unexpected stings in its tale, which almost makes the inevitable redemption payoff play a little less pat than it might have under different circumstances. But not THAT much less pat.  