Dinosaur   is Kramer vs. Kramer for paleontologists, an absorbing  documentary that recounts a torturous decade-long custody battle over  the miraculously well-preserved skeletal leftovers of a Tyrannosaurus Rex that were discovered along a remote stretch of the South Dakota  prairie.  As  in the  best-picture winner about a divorced father who fights the  judicial system to keep his son, there is a heart-rending relationship  at the core of Dinosaur  that is initially one of joy and triumph  before it becomes mired in perplexing legalities, grandstanding  politics, hurtful accusations and unfair repercussions.  Instead  of a boy named Billy, there is a T. Rex named Sueso dubbed in honor  of the intrepid excavating volunteer Susan Hendrickson, who first  stumbled upon this magnificent specimen one hot August day in . Sue  is no run-of-the-mill -million-year-old, however. She is the Hope  Diamond of dinosaurs, the th of her kind ever found as well as the  largest and most complete, with at least  of her bones recovered. Just to gaze upon this beasts intact -foot-long skull with its  fearsome dagger-like teeth puts all the cinematic versions of such  prehistoric creatures to shame. If  anyone is the  Dustin Hoffman of this saga, its Peter Larson. Even as a  child, this resident of tiny Hill City, SD, who is President and Co-Founder of the Black Hills Institute of Geological Research was  driven to dig up Earths deepest past for future generations to study  and ponder. True, he is a businessman who makes a living by selling  these rare treasures, often to international buyers, but when Larson  first spied three of Sues sun-baked vertebrae sticking through a mound  of rubble, it was love at first sight. For   days, his small team used picks and shovels in -degree heat to  free Sue and haul her away for safekeeping at their facility. There,  they painstakingly cleaned and restored her for two years, with plans to  build a nonprofit natural history museum in Hill City where Sue would  be the main attraction. Invaluable archival footage from this period  captures such hold-your-breath moments as when workers gingerly  separate Sues fragile head from her pelvis. But  the communitys dreams for Sue quickly crumbled in , after a  battalion of FBI agents and National Guard soldiers descended upon the  institute. Claiming that the dinosaur was stolen from federal land,  officials ordered that she and countless other fossils stored there be  seized and carted away to a university in Rapid City that was  miles  away. There they would sit until a  trial would eventually determine  their ultimate fate.    Larson  is the most obvious hero, especially after he and some of his  colleagues faced a -charge, -count federal indictment ranging from  conspiracy to custom violations. As he angrily says in the film, If you  add up the time served for each of those counts, it comes to  years  for mewhich is longer than Jeffrey Dahmer was sentenced to prison  for, and he killed and ate, like,  people.  But  there are a few possible villains lurking about. The states  grand-standing U.S. attorney. A vindictive judge who took offense when  Larsons defenders tried to have him dropped from the case. The best  candidate for Paleontology Enemy No.  would be Maurice Williams, a  Sioux who owned the area where Sue was found. Larson wrote him a check  for , at the time and they sealed the deal with a handshake. Turns  out, it was tribal property held in trust by the Department of  Interior. Williams muddied matters more by denying the money was for Sue  but to compensate him for having disturbed his land. If  Dinosaur  has a major flaw, it is how directorproducereditor Todd  Douglas Miller over-manipulates our sympathies to root for Larson and  his fossil raiders while only briefly acknowledging academics and museum  curators who frown upon those who cash in from such ventures. More  voices from the other side wouldnt have done that much damage to his  engaging portrait of a man and his dino done wrong. To  reveal too many details of this Law amp' Order meets  Jurassic Park  procedural, especially what eventually happens to Sue, sort of dilutes  the thriller aspect of the story. I suggest resisting the urge to Google  if you plan to see the doc. I did and was glad to be in the dark. But  have no worries. The final payoff is indeed the majestic sight of Sue,   feet long and  feet high at the hip, put back together. While the  conclusion may be bittersweet, rest assured that the lizard queen  abides.  