Do you remember the first time you realized that you were capable of hurting a loved one? The makers of theambitious, but ultimately misconceivedhorror drama " Don ' t  Sleep " wrestle withthat profound, formativetrauma. Writerdirector  Rick Bieber announces the severity and portentousness of his film's main theme by kicking off " Don ' t  Sleep " with a Nietzsche quote about the burden ofidentifying with the darker aspects of your personality. This is minutes after we're treated to a Z-grade quality dream sequence where a little boy named Zach  Dash Williams wanders around a foggy marsh. Before he wakes up, Zachis taunted by a baldcrone, shown the rotting, British-quality teeth ofa little girl wearing a sack-cloth mask, and then assaulted by a sickly-looking evil twin. When Zach wakes up, he is taken to the office of inappropriately chippertherapistDr. Summers  Cary Elwes, and told that he's just having bad dreams, sowhy be scared ofsome bad nocturnal emissions?   If you're willing to even momentarily fall forDr. Summers' weak tea reassurances,you may just fall for what Bieber is selling.  Zach's unnecessarily convoluted story then fast-forwards several years into his future. He'smarried now, and hasmoved into a new house with hisbeautiful wife Shawn Charlbi Dean Kriek. At this time,Zach now played by  Dominic Sherwood seems to have it all. We know this because secondary characters, like Dr. Summers,and Zach'schildhood friend Timmy  Andrew Caldwell, all tell him as much. Over and over, we are reminded: Zach earnsgood grades in law school, has a good relationship with next-door neighborsJo and Vincent  Drea de Matteo and  Alex Carter, and evenhas a great marriage. He apparentlycould not ask for anything more. That all changes around the time whenVincent's father Mr. Marino  Alex Rocco commits suicide. Zach starts to see his childhood double, a paleteenager cloaked in, um, a rather non-threateninghoodie.Zach is also haunted byimages of a man being tortured on his laptop. Nobody believes Zach, or understands why he wants to remember, but he must know: what happened to him when he was a child, and why is it so boring?  OK, fine, only understandablyconfusedmoviegoers will grapple with thelast part of my rhetorical question. Still," Don ' t  Sleep " is onlyof cursoryinterest becauseofthe tough questions that Bieber puts in main characters' mouths, like how can you take responsibility for your actions when even yourfamily and friendsfind them too dark to face? "Don't Sleep"eventually becomes a movieabout a community of well-wishers that help a bright young kid hide from himself. He's compartmentalized a dark past to the point where he, as Bieber ostentatiously points out, can only process the pain of ... something ... by seeing it through jumbled-uphorror movie tropes.  What's weird and that much more disappointing about " Don ' t  Sleep " is Zach's not the only onehaunted by his past. It literally takes a village to create and be moved by Zach's demons, like when a closet door mysteriously pops open whileShawn undresses before taking a shower. Or how about when Jo is having sex with Vincent, and she sees something terrible over her shoulder? You might think, based on this admittedlyselective plot summary, that you were watching a horror movie about the terror of living with a "nice guy" type, someone who nobody is willing to admit iscapable of hurting the women in his life. You don ' t even need to dig that far to find that subtext in " Don ' t  Sleep ." What else are we supposed to think when Jo drops a random truth bomb on Vincent, and recalls an urban legendthatMr. Marino once told her about a Crusades-era warrior who becomes a monster after his wife is repeatedly raped during his war-time absence? If this movie isn' t about the nightmare of living with an unreflectivewhite knight, what is it about?     That's aquestion that I sadly don ' t have a snappy retort for. " Don ' t  Sleep " fails on a number of levels, most immediately because it takes too long to figure out whatBieber is saying. There's a hokeytwist ending at the film's end that suggests that Zach isn' t solelyresponsible for his actions, and that even if he were, his problems are universal, and therefore human, and relatable. I'd believe this conciliatoryline ofthought if Bieberconvinced me that he cares enough about his characters to absolve all of them of their sins. There's a lot of moving parts to Zach's story, but I never got the sense that his problems were indicative of anything more than a guilty individual's quest to understand himself better. By shifting focus to everyone else partly for misdirection's sake Bieber allows us to wonder who is most to blame. This sounds an awful lot like victim-blaming, a notion that is impossible to stomach in a movie where there's all sorts of unchallenged acknowledgments of the fact that Shawn's beauty and patience is essentially a sign of his superficiallytrouble-free dream life. Timmy even jokesthree times about wantingto make it with Shawn. She's a trophy, an afterthought in a story that should, at the bare minimum, consider the impact of Zach's actions on his loved ones.  I want to recommend " Don ' t  Sleep " because it is, intellectually, more compellingthan many of theindie horror films I tend to watch. But I can' t recommend this movie, mostly because it's not smart enough to deserve that praise. Biebernever stops announcing his intentions to take on heavy subjects, whether it's in the way that this characters baldly over-state their concerns without elaborating on them, or the way that his genericboogeymen antagonistsallude to traumas without ever convincingly carrying them out. " Don ' t  Sleep " could have been a great horror movie. Too bad a great topic does not necessarily make a great film. 