Dope begins with an onscreen definition, which is a known characteristic of satires that ultimately fail in their satiric visions. Usually, these films open with a definition of satire, which they dont live up to by the closing credits. Dope opts instead for Websters take on its title, defining it as slang for a stupid person, drugs and something thats cool. To Dopes credit, it presents us with credible examples of all three' to its detriment, Dope alternates between being shockingly tone-deaf and surprisingly on-point. A narrator producer Forrest Whitaker introduces us to Malcolm  Shameik Moore and his friends Jib  Tony Revolori from  The Grand Budapest Hotel and Diggy  Kiersey Clemons. The narrator tells us theyre into White shit like getting good grades and going to college. Straight-A student Malcolm dreams of Harvard, though his advisor doesnt think hes serious enough because Malcolms entry essay is a dissertation on  Ice Cubes Today Was a Good Day. Malcolm and his crew also have a punk band where they sing catchy ditties penned by producer Pharrell Williams, though Malcolm feels a kinship with all things s, from its hip-hop artists to the hi-top fade that adorns his head until the last reel. The soundtrack is filled with a greatest hits collection of s rap, proving itself far more knowledgeable than our hero. This is a kid who thinks Eric B. and Rakims  masterpiece, Paid In Full, dropped in the 's. Later, someone corrects Malcolm for trying to steal another s classic for his lackluster decade. But I digress. Everyone lives in Inglewood, California in a neighborhood called The Bottoms, and when writer-director  Rick Famuyiwa focuses on the minutiae of Malcolms daily travails navigating his hood, Dope is addictive. Famuyiwa has covered Inglewood before, in his superior  feature,  The Wood, and he provides a knowing jolt of familiarity for those of us who grew up in similar circumstances. I found a lot to identify with in Malcolm, who is the type of Black nerd rarely seen on the big screen. I was that nerd, too. I nodded knowingly as he described how every route from school to his house had its own unique dangers. I rocked his hairstyle, though when I did it, it was in fashion. I knew all about dope dealers, addicts and people whod jack you for your sneakers though I was too broke to buy any footwear theyd want to steal. And I felt a pain in my gut reminiscing how many times I was accused of wannabe White because I was into schoolwork and keeping it real hadnt been coined yet. The daily neighborhood adventures of Malcolm, Jib and Diggy would have been enough, but Dope introduces a drugs and violence plot that seems lifted from any number of the s hood movies Malcolm probably knows by heart. Theres a dollop of Hype Williams Belly, the Hudlins  House Party and Boyz N The Hood among others. Dope alternates between satirizing these films, fetishizing them, paying homage to them, and ripping them off.For a film marketed as comedy, it also treads uneasily into violence. People are gorily shot, and theres one jaw-dropping, unfunny shot of a blood-spattered GameBoy thats played for laughs. The film feels off-kilter more often than not, though it isnt without its inspired, successful moments.   Dope merges this drug plot with an  After Hours-style escalating series of obstacles for Malcolm. It starts innocently enough, with the local drug dealer Dom Aap Rocky, very good here telling Malcolm to pitch woo on his behalf to Nakia  Zoe Kravitz, doing a flawless imitation of her mother,  Lisa Bonet. Nakia accepts Doms messengers request to go to a party, but the messengers interest in Nakia could get him shot in the process. Malcolm attends the party to make time with Nakia, but the partys a front for a drug deal that, of course, goes awry. Malcolm winds up with a huge amount of Molly in his backpack as a result. Jib and Diggy are along for the ride, and theyre more than capable sidekicks. They stick by Malcolm when his original plan to ditch the contraband goes South and also when Malcolm is coerced into selling the drugs by Doms mentor. En route, they meet a slew of people Dope amusingly mocks, from the type of brother who always winds up giving witness testimony on the news to the White hacker who whines about not being able to use the N-word. He cant say it Diggy slaps him after every attempt, but everyone else utters it about  times. Doms mentor, A.J., who also turns out to be Malcolms college contact,is played by  Spike Lee regular  Roger Guenveur Smith. Smith is fantastic here, using his voice in such a way that it channels menace while remaining preternaturally smooth and calm. The combination feels like the Geto Boys rapping over Brahms Lullaby, and Smith milks every last syllable of his dialogue. His character went to Harvard, and has the potential pull to get Malcolm in as well. As great as Smith is, Ive mixed feelings about his character this is what a Harvard education gets you a role as Mr. Big?, and those feelings extend to the movie at large.   On one hand, Malcolms Super Fly-inspired plan to force A.J. into pulling some strings at Harvard is no different than, say, a rich White kid whose father and grandfather went to Yale using their influence to get in despite not having the grades for it. And Malcolms computer-savvy, entrepreneurial means of selling those bags of Molly is refreshing simply because we rarely see such intelligence and foresight afforded people of color onscreen. On the other hand, I felt the film's message might equate to the idea that, for a poor, brown kid, the only sure road to Ivy Leagues hallowed halls is paved with drug sales and blackmail. I am sure Ill continue to wrestle with these ideas and my interpretations, which is quite frankly a good thing. Dope played the same Sundance Festival that honored the repulsive  Me and Earl and the Dying Girl, and while it is nowhere near as egregious in its depiction of African-Americans, Dope still left me feeling agitated about what Id just seen. Some of that irritation had to do with the films decision to climb upon a soapbox in its last scenes. This lecture, delivered by Malcolm,reminded me of  Paul Haggis  Crash. It felt like a pander, a congratulatory back pat for audience members who needed to feel better about themselves. Malcolm, now shorn of his fade for a more respectable hairdo, asks in voiceover Why do I want to go to Harvard? If I were White, would you even ask that question? Since you brought it up, Malcolm, I should ask: "If youwere White, would a movie have chosen the path to Harvard Dope chooses for you?" .