I  dont know about you, but my head hurts from all these eccentric  eggheads and arrogant geniuses monopolizing movie screens this fall. Isnt science the last thing you want to muse about while munching  popcorn laced with who-knows-what chemical agents in order to provide  that noxious fake butter taste? Most  of these titles are the usual top-of-the-line Oscar bait that is to be  expected at this time of year. Yet, Hollywood in its less-than-infinite  wisdom has decided to bunch up all the brainy titles and bring them out  within weeks of each other.  Interstellar is steeped in perplexing  wormholes, black holes and, yes, plot holes. The Theory of  Everything manages to explain at least one wonder of the universe with  nothing more than a box of Tide detergent. With its animated squad of  tech-savvy titans,  Big Hero  is practically Disney-fied nerd porn.  The Imitation Game reveals that crossword puzzle addicts, chess champs  and brilliant mathematicians were the secret heroes of World War II. But  just when Ive had my fill of films that make me feel intellectually  inferior, along comes the directing and writing team of Peter and Bobby  Farrelly with the much-delayed sequel to their hit debut, Dumb and  Dumber To.  You  dont have to wait much to be reminded of what you are in for. The  first collective Ewww! is uttered by the audience within minutes. That  the slapstick segment ends with a painful attempt to yank out a  catheter, which causes those watching to alternate between groans and  guffaws, shows that the boys still can get a rise out of a crowd.  Is  it a great movie? Only if you define great as the number of times one  of the leads is shown having his adult diapers changed baby-style by the  other lead in this case, numerous. Is it a good movie? Only if you  think the sight of a cat high on meth wildly swinging from a chandelier  in the background is hilarious. Is it an occasionally insulting and  out-of-touch movie? Only if you think racist jokes aimed at Mexicans,  Asians and even Canadians or ugly sexist taunts directed at a woman of a  certain age who happens to be  Kathleen Turner are offensive. Still,  I laughed enough to feel mortified at myself. I confess I did  chuckle heartily at the sign that read The  Barbara Hershey Highway.  That means I am human. It also means that Dumb and Dumber To is, at  the very least, an occasionally funny movie.  It has been  long years since the brothers staked their claim as  gross-out comedy kings with the original  Dumb and Dumber. But, as  anyone who watches cable news shows or reality series knows, the world  has yet to tire of observing nincompoops. Besides, what says happy  holidays more than a crude buddy romp with a cornucopia of bathroom  humor and gags involving a smorgasbord of bodily fluids? Most telling:  What used to be R is now quaintly PG-.   Not  that the sibling sultans of stupidity have improved much as artists.  The Farrellys have always lacked any sort of visual flair save for their  love of butt shots. Their films often look a little grimy and in need  of a good squeegeeing, as do many of their characters. And the  storylines feel like extended Three Stooges shorts so much so that  their last movie was their version of three strung-together Curly, Larry  and Moe episodes.   These stupidity specialists are at least smart enough to do some things  right. The brothers managed to reunite the original stars,  Jim Carrey  and  Jeff Daniels, as they reprise their roles as Lloyd Christmas his  surname begets this absurd exchange: As in the holiday? No, says  Lloyd, as in the tree. and Harry Dunne. You can sense how hungry  Carrey is to sink his chipped front tooth the real one he also exposed  in the original into this odiferous brand of lowbrow high jinks one  more time.  Since  his peers are determined not to allow him to ever compete for an acting  Oscar the fact he was overlooked for s Eternal Sunshine of  the Spotless Mind remains unforgivable he might as well grab the  cash opportunities when he can. With  his third season playing an imperious TV anchor on HBOs The  Newsroom, Daniels has less of a reason to engage in such moronic antics  again. But man does not live by scintillating  Aaron Sorkin dialogue  alone. Sometimes you just want to yell: Show us your tits.  The  Farrellys also rightly ignore any references to the ill-conceived   prequel, Dumb and Dumberer: When Harry Met Lloyd. That featured the  only actors less famous than those guys who briefly filled in for Tom  Wopat and  John Schneider while they were engaged in a contract dispute  on TVs  The Dukes of Hazzard. Oh,  there is a plot. Harry, who needs a new kidney in a hurry, suddenly  learns he has a grown daughter named Penny who might be a possible  donor. He and Lloyd, as before, hit the road in ridiculous vehicles  including a hearse and a Zamboni machine to find her in Maryland, where  she lives with her wealthy adoptive father.   And, oops, he is an esteemed Nobel-winning scientist. Yes, even the  Farrellys are on board with the trend. Except he is secretly being  poisoned by his gold-digging cheat of a second wife The Walking  Dead"'s  Laurie Holden and the family handyman  Rob Riggle, up to the  task of being a straight man. Everyone ends up in El Paso at a  convention that mocks Mensas answer to Comic-Con, those pretentious TED  conferences.  At  this point, I have to mention a reference that will be of interest to  fans of RogerEbert.com. The blind kid in a wheelchair from the first  movie, Billy from C, is back and has a movie-dialogue-squawking parrot  named Siskel, apparently in honor of critic Gene Siskel. The Farrellys  were always thankful for Siskel and Eberts support of their films, and  even dedicated s Me, Myself amp' Irene to Siskel after he died  the year before.  Bottom  line: For every joke that works, there are five that fall flat and one  that elicits waves of disgust. You might be able to handle that ratio,  however, just to hear absurd discussions like this one between Penny and  Lloyd. Ive always wanted to go to India and work in a leprechaun colony, Penny says. Counters Lloyd, after digesting the statement: I  think you mean Ireland. 