Intimate and impressionistic but ultimately a little self-indulgent, the documentary " Elena" explores the transcendent nature of the sisterly bond. Fusing memory and mystery, director and narrator  Petra Costa traces the fate of her older sister, actress  Elena Andrade, through the prism of her own childhood. Actually, calling it a documentary isnt entirely accurate. Its more of a dreamlike mix of artful images and sounds: decades-old archival footage, snippets of audio diaries and newer images shot in modern-day Manhattan. The challenging way it traverses genres and toys with reality is reminiscent of  Sarah Polleys excellent and superior documentary " Stories We Tell." Costa was just seven years old when Elena, who was  years her senior, left the familys home in Sao Paolo, Brazil, with dreams of becoming an actress in New York City. But home movies from Costas infancy in the early s reveal a powerful connection between the two. Theres Elena cradling Costa, twirling her around the living room, singing with her in the bathtub. There they are sharing a tender kiss before lying down together for a nap. The age difference seems to have made Elena an influential force as both a mother and sister figure. But Elena, who achieved some fame as a dancer and stage actress in her native city one who was notorious for her obsessive rehearsal habits wasnt satisfied with just that. She wanted to be a film star in the United States. And she inspired in Costa the same drive to perform. "You showed me all the Shirley Temple movies and trained me to become an actress," Costa intones as part of the films pervasive voiceover. Her narration may almost be too breathy, too hypnotic. It lulls us when the movies tension should be building. "Elena" isnt just a reflection on the power of the sibling connection but also an investigation into what happened to Costas sister once she set out in search of her dreams. Its clear early on that this radiant woman with the deep-set eyes, bright smile and great potential became the victim of a tragic undoing' the way Costa and her mother speak of Elena reveals great longing and loss. But Costa, who herself ventured to New York to study acting at Columbia University in , also attempts to reconstruct her sisters past, ostensibly in the hopes of achieving some closure. This consists of her wandering around the city, everywhere from the Upper West Side to Times Square to the Williamsburg Bridge, musing on their shared history. Costa also blends in extensive audio recordings Elena made her version of a diary in poetic Portuguese.   Headlights from passing cars provide blips and blurs. We see reflections in taxicab windows, a hand, a smile, gauzy wisps of sunlight. The camera follows her as she walks down street after street, passing her fellow pedestrians as the wind whips her hair. Costa creates a palpable sense of alienation within this crowded city. But shes also too fond of some pretty obvious Ophelia imagery as a metaphor for her sisters fate, repeatedly showing us young women floating in water in diaphanous dresses. The cumulative effect calls to mind a music video that probably seemed pretty artsy in the s. The repetitive and prolonged nature of these scenes almost seems like padding toward the end, despite the films relatively brief running time. What began in beautiful, intriguing fashion ends up feeling surprisingly dull. It also reveals how deeply insular Costas tale is. The sisters stories begin to overlap and blur in a way thats meant to be profound, but, ultimately, both women remain elusive. 