What do you get when you cross Sir  Elton John with a saber-toothed tiger? I dont know, but you better keep it away from your ass! This is not exactly a joke, but its delivered as one by The Comedian, the struggling stand-up comic at the heart of Rick Alversons ironically named feature Entertainment. And the line gets the faintest hint of a laugh possibly because hes delivering it to a literally captive audience in a prison cafeteria, where the men in orange jumpsuits may be primed to chuckle at anything that deflates the tension around forced anal intercourse. Its one of the few moments in Entertainment where The Comedians awkward, confrontational one-liners actually amuse someone. Mostly, his onscreen audiences seem uncomfortable, embarrassed, and trending toward hostile, and the films viewers are primed to follow suit. Pushing the envelope of awkwardness to provoke an emotional reaction is unquestionably part of the point. But that commitment to terrible humor is one of the few unquestionable things about Entertainment, which is openly designed to provoke unease and uncertainty. The Comedian is played by real-life comedian Gregg Turkington, and hes essentially Turkingtons longtime alter-ego Neil Hamburger, right down to the owlish oversized glasses, ghastly comb-over, and habit of clutching three or four cocktails under one arm as he performs. Entertainment is a slice of life featuring him out on tour in the California wasteland around the Mojave Desert, hitting a series of mostly empty small-town bars and less reputable venues. The other half of the act is a clown named Eddie " Mud" and " Joe" co-star  Tye Sheridan whose set largely consists of jumping around wearing a daffy grin, or simulating masturbation and defecation into his hat. Theyre an awkward pair, but at least Eddie seems like hes consciously putting on an act as brightly fake as the greasepaint he slathers onto his face. The Comedian is just as dour, awkward, and bitter offstage as he is onstage. Entertainment feels like a low-budget  David Lynch film, full of surreal interludes and oppressive silences. The script, written by Alverson, Turkington, and Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!s  Tim Heidecker who starred in Alversons last feature, The Comedy, consists of splintered moments that dont link together, except symbolically: The Comedian drifts through daytime tours of an airline graveyard and a sun-baked Old West movie set. He witnesses a bloody birth in a womens bathroom. He spends time with a farmer cousin  John C. Reilly, confronts a desperate hustler  Michael Cera, and gets shut into a light booth by a chromatherapist  Lotte Verbeek Stripped to his boxers, hes dragged into an eerie nighttime game of Marco Polo with a group of drunken strangers seemingly ported in from  Wild at Heart. Theres no sense of linear time in his world, just an overriding sense of dissociation, displacement, and frustration. And inevitably, he vents that frustration onstage. His awful gags Why dont rapists eat at T.G.I. Fridays? Well, its hard to go out and rape when you have a stomachache! are meant to be startling and off-putting, but his invective when his audience doesnt laugh or worse, talks back crosses the line into grotesquerie. Turkingtons whining, stammering delivery as Hamburger is designed to keep pushing audiences away: He draws out words until they turn into aural sandpaper. He repeats himself, stammers, or injects pauses so long that a faster-moving comic might be able to wedge a few bits in during the dead air. Hes excruciating. But The Comedian also seems authentically outraged at all the ingrates who dont find him hilarious.   Or does he? Thats the open question of a project this steeped in audience provocation. Turkington-as-Hamburger has been a known quantity for decades in terms of awkward, artificial discomfort comedy, and Heidecker projects like Tim and Eric and Check It Out! With Dr. Steve Brule starring Reilly go to the same well of comedy so consciously disjointed and confrontational that its meant to startle viewers back around into hilarity. Its hard to take anything The Comedian does entirely seriously, even when hes leaving weary, plaintive phone messages for a daughter who may not exist. His messages into the ether recall Dale Cooper endlessly talking into a tape recorder on Twin Peaks, just as Entertainments soundtrack, heavy on crooning, cooing dream-pop, recalls Lynchs work with Julee Cruise. But above all, Entertainment evokes Lynch by keeping the audience off-base, never entirely sure whats real. Lynch isnt Alversons only touchstone' Entertainment also recalls  Quentin Dupieuxs films Rubber and  Wrong, not just for the surreal, straight-faced confrontational comedy, but for the exquisitely shot sense of setting. Entertainment's" place in time and in the comedy world is unclear, but DP  Lorenzo Hagerman gives its arid desert locales and grimy venues a sense of solidity that helps ground the storys aimlessness. The Comedian is an ugly man with an ugly soul, and an ugly sense of comedy that at one point literally includes making fart noises for  full seconds as he pretends to gun down his silent audience with a soccer trophy. But hes occupying a world that at times is strikingly beautiful. No wonder he resents it so much. 