It takes confidence to put out a movie whose single-word title is also the procedure by which a dentist gets rid of a rotten tooth. Confidence either that your movie is so good that no film critic will make that joke, or that no film critic will be so baseline corny as to go for that joke anyway. Having backed myself into a bit of a corner a little too early in the review, Ill say that, no, Extraction is not very good, as my star rating implies. And the sort of extraction alluded to in the title is the secret agent covert ops kind, in which an endangered actor is removed from the locus of danger. That sort of operation, oddly, turns out to not really be the point of the movie. The actual point of the movie seems to be making a viable action movie star out of its lead,  Kellan Lutz, the Twilight veteran whos had a couple of shots at it before see, if you will, for instance,  The Legend of Hercules. This is such a Lutz vehicle that even Very Big Movie Star  Bruce Willis is second billed to the guy. I just recently watched Mr. Willis do excellent acting work in s excellent Nobodys Fool which really should be on everybodys holiday season movie rewatching list and so was a little confounded to see him sandwiched between Lutz and  Gina Carano in the opening credits. What a world. In any event, the movie, written by  Max Adams of Heist infamy, and Umair Kaleen, opens with Willis character menaced by thick-accented European baddies, who tell his character Turner that they know where he lives, for real. Willis does exactly what you expect him to, and says Dont ever threaten my family again to the chief baddie before blowing him away. Question: if youre gonna kill the guy anyway, hes not going to be able to threaten your family again, so why waste the words? If you go through Extraction with that kind of attitude, youll never enjoy it. Which would be a shame, if there were much to enjoy. Instead, theres Lutz as Turners son, a CIA desk jockey who, of course, goes rogue after dad, also CIA, gets held hostage by some new baddies many years after the opening scenes incident. Its all connected, no kidding, and Gina Caranos agent, whos deployed to glamorous Newark N.J., is an ex-girlfriend of Turner fils, which makes her of course very likely to not turn in the hunky rogue when their paths cross, despite the huffy protestations of a station chief played by D.B. Sweeney. What follows is some brisk undercover work, involving infiltrating a place one character calls, no kidding, the hottest club in town. Other exciting bits of dialogue include Negative. Youre too close to the situation, st storm of epic proportions, best gdamn field operative and more, including grown men calling each other bitch while pointing guns at each others heads. You know, the usual. Director  Steven C. Miller shows some visual consciousness in the action scenes and the unusual color palette of some of the night-stalking-the-villains-lair-warehouse sequences, but he also fails to appreciate that using whip-pans doesnt really do all that much to make a boring dialogue sequence concerning thhile Lutz and Carano go about their tasks with commendable enthusiasm honestly, Caranos line readings here, while nothing to write home about in a larger sense, are a huge improvement over her work in the aforementioned Heist, and good for her, Willis really might as well have phoned in his performance. Part of me doesnt blame him, but another part of me would like him to cut it out. 