I know why you're reading this. And it isnt for plot-description foreplay. So lets just cut to the supposed heavy-panting stuff and get it over with, shall we? In the annals of sexually-charged event cinema, Fifty Shades of Grey barely lights a candle let alone combusts with unbridled forbidden passion. Nothing comes close to  Michael Douglas and  Glenn Close humping on the kitchen sink in  Fatal Attraction or  Marlon Brandos inventive use of butter with  Maria Schneider in The Last Tango in Paris. Even those ejaculating dolphin fountains in  Showgirls were steamier than what shows up in this tempered version of E.L. James Samp'M rewrite of  Beauty and the Beast. That is, unless you wanted to learn how to re-purpose that peacock feather that has been lying around the house. Consider the deflowering scene. I much prefer the one in  Ida, Polands foreign-language Oscar contender, between a nun-in-training and a hot saxophone player is there any other kind? than the hype-escalated glossy bedroom encounter between a lip-biting virgin with a . GPA and her control-freak billionaire in Fifty Shades. Despite the admirable efforts of  Dakota Johnson, who happily has inherited much of mom  Melanie Griffiths minx-like mystique, and  Jamie Dornan, who as acquaintances tell me played an incredibly attractive serial killer in the cult TV show  The Fall, there is always a sense of every erotic moment being choreographed by committee. A wisp of pubic hair here, a butt shot there, arch that back, thrust those hips. One, two, three, gasp. Could you guess that, despite her name, director  Sam Taylor-Johnson is a woman? Yes, if only for the most telling and perhaps wisest omission. That is, much like the Ken doll he resembles, Dorans manhood is kept discreetly hidden save for one fleeting and hardly revealing crotch-cam shot. Basically, the only body parts allowed to be erect are Johnsons nipples, which are on display so much they probably required their own SAG cards. The thinking behind this choice is likely that the majority of the millions of women who bought the pop-lit phenomenon would rather revel in the romantic fantasy of a brainy lass trying to tame a broken man than fixate on the sight of male genitalia in the flesh especially since Fifty Shades is showing on a bunch of IMAX screens. Before you argue otherwise, consider that s highly explicit Shame barely grossed under  million worldwide even though a gorgeous specimen like  Michael Fassbender proudly flashed his shillelagh every chance he got. There is, however, one move that did make an impression on me. When Johnsons Anastasia Steele straddles the lap of Dornans Christian Grey while he is seated on a piano bench with all of his mournful nocturnal ivory tickling, its as if De Sade and the Phantom of the Opera had a child together, he manages to use his bent arms like a forklift under her shapely behind, pick her up with ease and whisk her back into the boudoir. Eventually we learn that instead of dating, Christian likes to recruit young women like Ana as submissives who willingly yield to his preferred brand of discipline in his high-rise homes well-stocked hideaway, infamously known as the Red Room of Pain. But before we get to the kink, which takes up a surprisingly small amount of the running time, lets address what Taylor-Johnson and company including screenwriter  Kelly Marcel, who wrote  Saving Mr. Banks, also about another female haunted by a troubled man get right.   Not only are all the awkwardly written source materials gushy inane exclamations Holy crap! is a regular and silly references to our heroines Jiminy Cricket-like inner goddess nowhere to be found. It seems that someone realized how ridiculous the first meetings between awkward college student Anastasia and intimidating Seattle-based entrepreneurial whiz Christian are and decided to inject an abundance of humor heavy on loaded double entendres alongside a fair amount of tension. Ana and the secretive businessman spark a cat-and-mouse pursuit when she steps in to conduct an interview for her college paper after her reporter roommate falls ill. Soon he appears at the folksy hardware store where she works, suggestively buying cable ties and masking tape, and shows up in the nick of time to save an inebriated Ana from an overly amorous male friend and letting her share his hotel room to recover. It doesnt take long before her virginity is history and the game is afoot. The film makes sure to include little details that might confuse the uninitiated but will delight the faithful. The phrase Laters, baby! The Charlie Tango helicopter balloon. The knit tie that Christian employs when he binds Anas hands for the first time and then later wears in public to excite her. There are other cast members, some you might actually recognize Marcia Gay Harden as Christians adoptive mother,  Jennifer Ehle best known as Elizabeth Bennet in the BBC miniseries adaptation of Pride amp' Prejudice as Anas mom. But this is primarily a two-hander, which hits its entertaining peak during the infamous contract negotiation scene that involves Ana agreeing to Christians rules of submissive engagement and striking out those that displease her. But not even all the architecture porn in the worldTaylor-Johnson does love a panoramic shot of phallic skyscrapers twinkling at twilight against a cloud-covered cityscapecan compensate for a story that quickly goes limp once will she submit or wont she becomes the primary question. Blindfolds, riding crops and whips are employed but do little to heat up matters. Ana, it turns out, is none too pleased with the idea of punishment as a turn-on. But if anyone is punished by Fifty Shades, it is the audience. By the time the screen goes black, leaving much unresolved and little in the way of a real climax, no one can blame those who loudly groaned after realizing they have to wait for the inevitable sequel for any sort of real satisfaction.   