With the through-the-roof achievements of his penetrating marital drama  A Separation in ,  Asghar Farhadi leapt over several of his world-renowned countrymen to become the most internationally successful Iranian auteur yet. After capturing the Golden Bear at Berlin, the feature, Farhadis fifth, went on to rake in unprecedented earnings for an Iranian film as well as a stream of honors that culminated in its becoming the first Iranian film to win the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film. Given the wide interest the film excited, its hardly surprising that curiosity regarding Farhadis little-seen earlier work has grown since. While he subsequently made a well-regarded drama set in France  The Past, , U.S. viewers have recently been given the chance to see the two terrific films that preceded A Separation:  About Elly  was released last year, and Fireworks Wednesday  arrives this week. Although the three films cant be called a trilogy, in a sense they form a group. Farhadis first two features, Dancer in the Dust and Beautiful City, were more typical of Iranian films in their relatively conventional if very assured styles and especially in their focus on lower-class or marginal characters. With Fireworks Wednesday, Farhadi turns his attention to the Iranian middle class and the strains within the marriages of people who are materially comfortable. Farhadi also introduces a style that is cooler, more intricate and refined. While About Elly displays these qualities at their most expansive and dramatically charged, Fireworks Wednesday is inarguably the film that most resembles A Separation and lays the groundwork for its brilliance. The main location in both films is the apartment of an upper-middle-class Tehrani couple, yet the characters include not only that couple but also one from the lower social echelons. With a bit of clever misdirection, Fireworks Wednesday introduces the poorer characters first. Roohi  Taraneh Alidoosti is a bright-eyed, young servant-for-hire whos due to marry her boyfriend next week. Soon after we meet the two, theyre riding his motorbike on a mountain road when her chador gets caught in a wheel, forcing them to an abrupt stop. Though they laugh it off, the troublesome chador will recur in the film, essaying both symbolic and dramatic roles. The same day she tries on her wedding gown, Roohi is assigned a job at an apartment in a ritzier district of Tehran. It is Fireworks Wednesday, a rowdy holiday that precedes the spring-equinox arrival of the Persian New Year this year on March . Because it dates from Zoroastrian times, Fireworks Wednesday is held in suspicion by Irans Islamic rulers' it has figured into other Iranian films, including  Jafar Panahis  This Is Not a Film. Due to the celebration, fireworks are going off constantly outside, but if that makes Roohis snazzy place of employment sound like a war zone, it also looks like one: theres a broken window, glass on the floor and furniture in wild disarray.   When she enters, Roohi finds the man of the house, Morteza  Hamid Farokhnezhad, talking agitatedly on the phone and waving a bandaged hand. When his wife, Mozhde Hediyah Tehrani, comes in, the cause for this homes disturbed appearance becomes evident: the couples marriage is rocking on its foundations. Husband and wife go at each other bitterly. He yells at her, Youre so damned neurotic! then storms out, supposedly headed for work. But she suspects even this is a lie, and later will swipe Roohis chador to use as a disguise when she goes to spy on him a provocation that ends with him beating her in the street. This crucial scene occasions one of Farhadis most startling stylistic maneuvers: As the action in the street occurs, the camera remains planted in the elevator Morteza has used to reach his wife, even as it ascends again. By the end of the storys first act, weve learned the reason for the marital meltdown. Mozhde suspects her husband is carrying on an affair with an attractive divorcee named Simin  Pantea Bahram, who operates a beauty salon out of her apartment on their floor. But is Morteza really being unfaithful, as various clues suggest? Or is Mozhde, a woman hemmed in and perhaps unhinged by the restrictions and pressures Iranian society places on women, fantasizing the infidelity? This question will be answered later in the film, but even before discovering the truth, the innocent, youthfully optimistic Roohi gets a chillingly disillusioning lesson regarding the harsh realities of marriage at least among her elders and social betters. Given this storys implications as a social critique, it might seem surprising that it got past the ever-watchful censors of the Islamic Republic. But Farhadi is skilled in the careful subtleties and understated symbolic nuances developed by previous Iranian filmmakers, and he has a special weapon in his own arsenal: maximum complexity. As he does to such masterful effect in A Separation, here he constructs a story that keeps revealing new thematic and psychological layers, ones that often come to light through the shifting of perspective from one character to another, a technique that deepens our sympathy for the people were watching to the point of our realizing that, as in Renoir, everyone has their reasons. And while a critique of Iranian society is certainly implied, the narrative complexity means that its exact meaning is left to the viewer. Indeed, while some may trace the problems evoked here to the impositions of a state that tries to impose religion by law, Iranian conservatives might deduce that this marriages problems come from the couple being too selfish, Westernized and removed from religion. No wonder the censors werent quick to pounce.   The films style exhibits a similar purposeful complexity. Using cinematographer  Hossein Jafarians crisp images, Farhadi develops the mode of camerawork that would characterize his subsequent films, a technique that involves constant movement and reframing especially in the apartments beautifully designed interiors in order to follow the shifting of perspectives among characters as well as the storys emotional twists. While the style in some moments recalls American filmmakers including Altman, Lumet and Kazan, its distinctiveness and eloquence ultimately testify to the gifts of Farhadi, one of the contemporary cinemas most essential masters. 