Given this movies punchily obvious trailers, given the fact that its theme is similar to that of a lot of subpar entertainments, given that the producing entitites of Warner Brothers and New Line have teamed up to concoct a large number of cruddy comedies over the past ten years Life As We Know It and  Due Date spring to mindare stuck in my craw depending on how you wanna look at it, and given the fact that said studios didnt deign to show this movie for critics until Wednesday evening, it might be reasonable to infer that Fist Fight is gonna be a reasonably weak and mediocre crude yuk fest.    But wait. Its not. Yes, Fist Fight has enough crude sexual humor to fill two such mediocrities. But its also a consistently intelligent or at least bright, coherently constructed comedy that is on occasion a rather pointed critique of the American education system in the early  st  century. Dont let that keep you away, though. Its more often than not really funny.   Its the last day of school at Roosevelt High, located in a suburb in Georgia, and this is apparently Prank Day. Roosevelts students arent academic or sports overachievers, but theyve got mischief down. This merely frustrates milquetoast English teacher Mr. Campbell, played by  Charlie Day. But it infuriates hot-tempered history teacher Strickland, played by  Ice Cube. A classroom contretemps leads to a faceoff for the two teachers with the irascible principal. Campbell snitches to save his job, and Strickland vows an Ill see you after school revenge. Stricklands advantage in this contest his mysterious bearing has given rise to many intimidating backstories about the teacher have Campbell contemplating a new kind of doom. And hes already got a potential firing, a pregnant wife, and an insecure daughter whos enlisted him to perform at her talent show to worry about.   All these tropes are pretty familiar, but theyre also all handled in ways that are more satisfying and logical than Ive ever seen in such product. The movie, directed by  Richie Keen from a script by  Van Robichaux and  Evan Susser  Max Greenfield has a story credit with that duo, packs an unusual amount of nuance into whats on the face of it a pretty unsubtle premise. Despite being what seems to be a near-maniac, Strickland is the character who occupies the moral high ground in this conflict. Days Kaufman comes to realize, via Stricklands admittedly unusual example, that the go-along-to-get-along attitude hes adopted does a disservice not only to himself but to the students hes supposed to be serving. The fight eventually turns into an opportunity to shake up the system a little bit.   But lets not get carried away with the stresses on social significance here. The movie prudently packs a lot of funny bits, each one reliant on the particular skill set of a particular performer.  Tracy Morgan is in full irresistible Morgan mode as a not-all-there athletics coach.  Christina Hendricks is perfect as a dryly unhinged French teacher.  Dean Norris, as the principal, is being followed by a mariachi band all day on prank day, and his level of irritability is commensurate with that.  Kumail Nanjiani does very clever work as a generally disinterested school security guard. Austin Zajur makes his angel face go smarmy for his turn as a manipulative student. And  Jillian Bell nearly steals the movie as an inappropriately horny guidance councilor, making the most of the fact that she has the lions share of did she really say that? lines. Their performances help the movie fly by, as does the work by Day and Cube, who are two of our finest comic actors as far as Im concerned. I am also grateful for the fact that Fist Fight feels like a movie a narrative with a beginning, a middle, and an end that all have something to do with each other, as opposed to pictures like  Pitch Perfect and Neighbors and their sequels, which to me all play as a collection of bits slapped together by an Avid editing machine set to autopilot, if Avid editing machines have such a setting. Just as Mr. Campbell stands up for pedagogy, Fist Fight stands up, at least a little bit, for storytelling. 