Deep in the bowels of a university's medical school, a group of students intentionally kill themselves for minutes at a time to experience what lies beyond. This is a fabulous idea for a movie, but unfortunately "Flatliners"represents the second failed attempt to do it justice. It's not a terrible film, and neither was the original. They're both frustratingly not terrible: the cast acts the hell out of every moment, struggling to find profundity in situations that are conceived in the most superficial way, often settling for cheap horror movie jolts and "it was only a dream" false alarms, and things wrap up so neatly that the sense of wonder and terror inherent in the story remains largely untapped.   Joel Schumacher's  original was a surprise hit, starring a cast of soon-to-be-huge stars, including  Julia Roberts and  Kiefer Sutherland, who has a supporting role here' but its premise, which could have opened the door to a visionary work ofsci-fi horror, settled into a sort of gothic self-help drama groove, with the medical students realizing that the seemingly supernaturalgoings-on triggered by their experiments in "flatlining" weremanifestations of their past misdeeds.Director Niels Arden Oplevs remake,adapted by  Ben Ripley from Peter Filardi'soriginal script, sticks to that template, changing key details here and there while embracing a style that stirs every current horror movie visual cliche into a jagged paste.  Ellen Page stars as Dr. Courtney Holmes, whose kid sister died in a car accident years ago due to her negligence. She corrals a group of fellow residents Diego Luna's earnest and responsible Ray, Nina Dobrev's flirtyhardcore Marlo, James Norton's rich kid Casanova Jamie, Kiersey Clemons' stressed-out and mommy-dominated Sophia to administer heart-stopping drugs to kill her for three minutes and heart paddles to wake her back up so that she can report what she saw. She experiences a sensation of flying and sees angles on the campus and the city that she'snever personally experienced. This is enough toconvince her colleagues except for thecautious and ethical Ray,who's there mainly to guard against tragedy to undergo the same treatment.  But then ominous bass fiddles! mysterious things start to happen. Courtney is visited by anapparition that's obviouslyconnected to her feelings of guilt over her sister's death. In short order, Jamie, Marlo and Sophia all begin experiencing creepy events and disturbing visions. By the time the movie reaches its midpoint, there's no question of where the film has to go before the credits roll.   Fully  percent of the movie'srunning time consists ofcharacters wandering along through dark apartments,basements and corridors, wondering if thenoises they hearare just their imaginations while out-of-focus shapes and faces dart through thenegative space nearby. Sometimes these shocks areamplified by ashriek of atonal soundtrack music, and once in a while you'll get a jolt of graphic violence that rarely has any long-term consequences. The whole thing is too much of a tease, and once you figure that out, there's no actual suspense to speak of, just momentarymanipulations.     The cast gives the movie everything they've got. Luna and Page in particular make much strongerimpressions than you mightexpect, given the repetitious and mostly shallow scenarios they're asked to enact, and there are a couple of momentsnear the end where Sophia's story snaps into focus and finds just the rightbalance between inspirationalmelodrama and horror that otherwise eludes the movie. But the choppy, cliched visuals and the script's superficial approach to the characters' predicaments people are constantlystating the obvious to each other, and to the audienceultimately undo any goodwill that the actors can generate.  This sort of movie can be more frustrating than a maliciously terribleor blunderingly incompetent film because at each step you can tell that everyone involved in the production sincerelybelieved in the material, both as raucousentertainment and as a tale of moral growth. But when the best you can say about a movie is that it means well, that's proof that it'snot working on any level that matters. 