Gorgeous people in expensive clothing trade snappy banter in luxurious locations. Its all giddy, fizzy fun until it isnt anymore in  Focus. But co-stars  Will Smith and  Margot Robbie remain consistently charismatic, even once the script for this heist caper collapses in a punishing pile of its own twists and double-crosses. For Smith, Focus functions as a return to form, which admittedly sounds odd in describing a box-office titan who hasnt really gone anywhere in the past quarter-century. But recent years havent treated him so kindly, between the ponderous  Seven Pounds, the forgettable Men in Black  and the disastrous  After Earth. Here, as a veteran con man, Smith seems looser charming as ever but also broken, commanding yet vulnerable. Its as if hes finally shifted into the right gear as he settles into middle age good lord, is the eternally boyish and buoyant Smith approaching ? and hes comfortable there. For Robbie, Focus cements her status as a major star. After a hilarious and head-turning supporting performance in s  The Wolf of Wall Street where she nearly stole the whole behemoth of a film out from underneath a larger-than-life  Leonardo DiCaprio the Australian actress proves shes just as fierce as a leading lady. Its not just that shes stunningly beautiful and impossibly photogenic which she is. She also has great instincts and a flair for comic timing, with a playfulness thats as powerful as her sex appeal. The film from the writing-directing duo of  Glenn Ficarra and  John Requa gives these actors plenty of brisk and snappy material to work with, both individually and as a team in various forms. But, like Ficarra and Requas  comedy Crazy Stupid Love, Focus begins promisingly and bops along enjoyably for a while, only to run out of steam in the third act. At the start, though, Smiths Nicky and Robbies Jess enjoy crackling chemistry as strangers trying to outsmart each other over wine and candlelight at an upscale Manhattan restaurant. The way cinematographer  Xavier Perez Grobet often shoots them sitting opposite each other at a table in an opulent setting, bathed in sultry light is reminiscent of the  Steven Soderbergh classic  Out of Sight in ways that surely cant be a coincidence. Shes a small-time hustler trying to weasel her way into more lucrative gigs. Hes been at this game his whole life and has major operations down to a science. Once each of them realizes the truth about the other if such a thing as truth is possible in a movie about con artists she begs him to teach her everything he knows. This leads to a scene thats one of the films highlights as they flirtatiously dance around each other in a snowy Lincoln Center, with Nicky preaching the importance of taking away a marks focus while pocketing every last one of Jess belongings. Then its off to New Orleans, where Nicky reluctantly lets Jess join the massive team hes assembled to snatch watches and wallets from the unsuspecting revelers whove gathered for a Major Professional Football Championship. Whatever you do, dont call it the Super Bowl. Turns out, shes a natural a massive distraction in a tight dress with a light touch as revealedin a beautifully edited sequence amid the crowds of Bourbon Street. And Jess distracts Nicky, too, as the thrill of the wrongness of it all gives way to not-entirely convincing romance. The Superdome itself provides the setting for the films tour de force sequence in which Nickys gambling habits put him in serious peril with a high roller an amusing BD Wong in a luxury suite. This section of the movie could function as its own freestanding short film, it has such a strong arc and it provides such a heady mix of tension and laughs. I wouldnt dream of giving away its many surprises, but I will say this: You will never listen to the Rolling Stones overused Sympathy for the Devil in a film the same way ever again. If Focus could have ended there, it would have been a dazzling little gem. But it keeps going, traveling to Buenos Aires three years later. There, Nicky is running another scheme for wealthy race-team owner Garriga  Rodrigo Santoro involving duping his competitors with some high-tech thingy that makes cars go faster. What the device does isnt important, but the way Nicky uses it to manipulate everyone around him is what sets up the films climax, albeit in rather flimsy fashion.  Gerald McRaney does get to enjoy some truly lacerating language as Garrigas gruff and mistrustful right-hand man, though. Similarly,  Adrian Martinez supplies his share of laugh-out-loud lines as Nickys lewd longtime sidekick. More importantly, Buenos Aires is where Nicky reunites with Jess, whos now enjoying a life of wealth and comfort as Garrigas girlfriend. Of all the gin joints in all the world, right? But while Jess insists shes left her life of crime behind, nothing in Focus is ever that easy. As vibrant as these characters are, theres not much to them beneath their glossy surfaces, which makes it difficult to become emotionally invested in whether they end up together or whether that sort of ordinary human connection is even possible in this extraordinary world. Nicky at least has a backstory about a cold-hearted father, which is intended to explain his inherent cynicism. Jess isnt even afforded that much characterization. We know in a movie like this that we in the audience are being played just as much as the poor fools on screen. In theory, thats part of the fun trying to stay a step ahead of the action, and often failing. But Focus is all surface, all artifice, to the point where we cant help but expect the duplicity. And the twists come so fast and furious toward the end, they feel more like overkill than a shock. The trick that makes Robbies character such an expert thief her light touch is the very thing the movie loses toward the end. 