A rambling road trip story with no real point to it, Folk Hero amp' Funny Guy attempts to be a sweet comedy about two friends in respective ruts attempting to break out of them together. Instead, its mostly a series of loosely connected scenes about such a concept combined with a needless, half-baked love triangle. Its a strangely aimless film with some good ideas but it never follows through.    Jason  Wyatt Russell, an indie folk rocker who supposedly mixes the good times of Wilco with the authenticity of  Bob Dylan, and Paul  Alex Karpovsky, a struggling stand-up comic with no stage personality of which to speak, are good friends from childhood. After Pauls rough breakup with his fiance, Jason decides to take him on a brief East Coast acoustic tour as an opening act to get his mojo back. Along the way, the two meet cute up-and-coming singer Bryn Meredith Hanger and decide to bring her along on tour. Though Paul quickly falls for her, Jason swoops in early on, creating tension between the two of them, which only increases after Jason discloses his real reason for the tour spoiler: its another woman while Paul tries to leave stand-up behind for good.     The good ideas implicit in the script mainly involve Pauls attempt to extract himself from comedy in order to get a real job in advertising. Jason, the more successful of the two, tries to keep pushing him along the artistic path because of his disgust for the rat race. Yet the truth is that Paul isnt a very good stand-up, hes just been doing it long enough where he feels comfortable bombing on stage telling the same jokes about Evites. Of course, all Paul needs to do is be himself on stage and hell unlock some magical portal into comedy stardom or whatever, but writerdirector  Jeff Grace ignores the more interesting path Folk Hero amp' Funny Guy could take: someone slowly learning that its time to hang it up as his best friend continues to reach for the stars.    Naturally, the film instead becomes a slog until Paul and Jason finally have their climactic fight where they say what they really mean to each other. This might work better if Russell and Karpovsky had better chemistry together, but while theyre both fine individually, they dont really work as a duo let alone as good friends. The same goes for the third wheel in the triangle, as the film also hinges on Karpovsky and Hanger creating sparks on screen, and yet that doesnt really pan out either. All three actors seem to be having a good time, which might be enough in another film, but since none of them can imitate friendship or intimacy between each other, it all feels a little empty.    Folk Hero amp' Funny Guy coasts on an amiable indie charm that might be palatable to some but will likely induce eye rolls and throat gags in others. There are the obligatory cameos from beloved actors we know and love, like  Melanie Lynskey,  Michael Ian Black, and  David Cross, who all do good work. Theres the bright visual aesthetic that feels almost blinding at times. Russell and Hanger both sell the hell out of their music, courtesy of  Adam Ezra, but its nevertheless largely bland and unmemorable. The best thing that can be said about Folk Hero amp' Funny Guy is that Grace does right by his female characters, especially for such a male-dominated film, in that it provides them enough self-awareness and agency to walk away from or call out the more devastating flaws in both Paul and Jason. Oddly enough, its those flaws, as well as the basic indications of human friendship, that needed to be developed more for Folk Hero amp' Funny Guy to really take off.    