For the Love of Spock is more than just catnip for Trekkies. Its also an often painful examination of the rocky fatherson relationship that existed between filmmaker  Adam Nimoy and his famous father, Leonard. Released to coincide with the  th anniversary of  Star Trek, Nimoys documentary originally planned to focus specifically on the shows Vulcan character, Mr. Spock.When  Leonard Nimoy died in , his son widened the scope of his film to encompass his entire life and career. The result is a lively, often hilarious collection of talking heads that includes fans and actors from the original and current incarnations of Star Trek, plus footage of Leonard Nimoy in the numerous roles that were overshadowed by his most famous creation. Much of the film is narrated by Leonard Nimoy, who immediately jumped at the chance to work with Adam for the first time since their collaboration on the remake of an old Outer Limits episode  years prior. Nimoy plays the same role in both versions, which the film juxtaposes to show not only the passage of time but also the equal amount of commitment put into both performances. It was one of many pre-Spock roles Nimoy played when he arrived in Hollywood from Boston. I must have looked like I just got off the boat from Transylvania, he says of his arrival. Despite getting somewhat steady acting work the clips of the actor as a young, strikingly handsome man are fascinating to behold, Nimoy supplemented his gigs with a wide array of jobs that highlighted his workaholic tendencies. He hustled his ass off in the 's, says Adam Nimoy with a tinge of wonder in his voice. He could do anything, For the Love of Spock cycles through a long list of people who mention the various jobs Leonard held. He serviced fish tanks, drove a cab, had vending machines, ran an ice cream parlor and managed an apartment building, among other things. But it was an appearance in a  episode of The Lieutenant that got Star Trek creator  Gene Roddenberrys attention. Hed make a good alien, Roddenberry said. It was a mild understatement, to be sure. Trekkies can probably recite by heart many of the details this film provides about the show. When NBC considered Roddenberrys original pilot too cerebral, he created a new version featuring a different lead actor,  William Shatner. Had NBC completely gotten its way, Shatner would have been acting opposite a different alien' the network considered Spock too satanic looking and feared hed offend the Bible Belt viewers. Those same viewers may have contributed to the truckloads of fan mail, and carloads of fans, that came to the Nimoy household after the shows first few episodes. People were stealing leaves and grass from our front yard, Adam Nimoy recalls. And this wasbeforethe shows  cancellation and syndication deal created the type of cult status that made its first convention in  a rousing success.   Though Shatners Kirk was the shows overly emotional lead, more people saw themselves in the mostly emotionless Spock. He predictably resonated with young science lovers in training like Neil deGrasse Tyson and NASA employees Bobak Ferdowksi and Amy Mainzer, whose interviews mention Spocks thirst for knowledge. But For the Love of Spock shows that Spock also appealed to anyone who felt like a societal odd man out. For example, Ferdowski points out that, as a biracial person, he felt a kinship with Spocks half-human, half-Vulcan identity and its accompanying trials and tribulations. And at his first Trek convention, Adam Nimoy interviews several people with similar stories of how some unusual aspect of their being led them to being lifelong Spock fans. They are the yin and yang in front of the camera, says  George Takei, the original shows Sulu, of Shatner and Nimoy. Shatner confirms this before taking a playful swipe at the singing careers he and Nimoy shared. He was a better singer than I was, says Shatner. He could hold a note off-key, but he could hold it. The younger Nimoy also cant help ribbing his Dads warbling: in a revised Star Trek scene he substitutes Leonards awesome, infamous music video for the Hobbit-loving ditty, The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins for whatever originally inspired the USS Enterprise crews horrified response. Scenes like this reflect the level of thoroughness For the Love of Spock has for Leonard Nimoys career.Fans of  Mission: Impossible and my personal favorite In Search Of are rewarded with clips from each show along with Nimoys own commentary about them. Nimoys directing career, which often goes forgotten nowadays, is also celebrated. Were reminded us that he not only directed the best film in Paramounts original Star Trek movie series  Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home, but he also directed the series prior installment and the box office hit  Three Men and a Baby." Alas, theres no  Steve Guttenberg talking head interview in For the Love of Spock," which is bound to disappoint legions upon legions of viewers.   But seriously, while For the Love of Spock is a very entertaining and light-hearted look at the man behind Spocks pointy ears, theres an underlying sadness that Adam Nimoy never lets us forget.The tensions between fathers and sons has always made for compelling drama, and the tale of Adam and Leonard includes alcohol and drug addiction and the aftereffects of fame depleting a fathers time with his children. Nimoy uses a powerful letter of explanation written by his father in  to great effect, reading it in fragments throughout the film as a dramatic counterpoint. The director also uses footage of a Viking funeral of sorts for Spock and by extension, his portrayer at s Burning Man as a haunting, cathartic visual elegy, closing the film on an effective moment of tribute. 