Harper and Allie are awful human beings. Restless and clueless somethings who share a loft in Brooklyns hip Williamsburg neighborhood, they can barely do something simple like go for an afternoon bike ride without having it turn into a debacle. They are emblematic of millennial entitlement' rather than work toward a fulfilling life and risk failure, theyd rather make fun of everyone around them in catty, detached fashion and expect success will simply come their way. Strangers and friends alike exist for their use, abuse and amusement. But while theyre high on snark, theyre low on smarts: Theyre not nearly as capable as they think they are, individually or as a duo. So why should we bother spending an hour and a half with these people, much less care about them? Because eventually, they end up being more wounded, complicated and sympathetic figures than we could have imagined at the outset. And because  whether or not wed like to admit it  theyre willing to say what the rest of us are thinking when they tactlessly open their mouths without a filter. Its difficult to create enjoyably unlikable characters' a fine line separates hilarity and hostility. For all its bull-in-a-china-shop crassness,  Larry Davids persona is a delicate thing to pull off well. With Fort Tilden, writer-directors  Sarah-Violet Bliss and  Charles Rogers have created two women who are drawn so vividly and so viciously, theyre hard to dismiss. And with great chemistry and  ultimately  vulnerability, co-stars  Bridey Elliott and  Clare McNulty bring them sharply to life. Harper Elliott is the flighty, bitchy daddys girl  a quote-unquote artist who never actually creates anything, but rather picks up the phone and calls her wealthy businessman father at the slightest sign of trouble. Shes also the alpha and the meaner of the two mean girls. Allie McNulty is more treacherous in a subtle way  passive-aggressive and falsely sweet, but also annoyingly spineless and indecisive. She keeps telling people shes heading off to join the Peace Corps, which is really more about telling people shes heading off to join the Peace Corps than doing actual work. A running bit in which everyone reacts with horror when she says shes bound for Liberia provides consistent laughs. In their ditziness and daffiness  as well in their in their codependency  Harper and Allie are like a toxic version of the lovable airheads  Mira Sorvino and  Lisa Kudrow played in Romy and Micheles High School Reunion or the deluded pals  June Diane Raphael and  Casey Wilson portrayed in the lesser-seen  Ass Backwards. They need each other. They love each other. But theyre also holding each other back from facing adulthood  all of which will play out over one long and spectacularly disastrous day.   When we first meet Harper and Allie, theyre trading insulting texts while enduring their friends rooftop acoustic guitar performance, which is admittedly shrill and self-indulgent. But the night isnt a total waste: They end up meeting a couple of guys  Jeffrey Scaperrotta and  Griffin Newman whom they awkwardly flirt with and make tentative plans to meet the next day at the beach at Fort Tilden. Awkwardness, by the way, is the name of the game throughout as the ladies stumble from one uncomfortable situation to the next  usually of their own making. A late wake-up leads to a scramble to find bikes  Neil Casey appears briefly and amusingly as the needy upstairs neighbor who helps them. Every decision they make before they leave the house is inspired by vanity: no breakfast, no sunscreen and a carefully placed copy of  David Foster Wallaces Infinite Jest. Then theres a side trip to Prospect Park to get some Molly from Harpers hot ex  Peter Vack, who ends up being the voice of reason even though hes the most outwardly vapid person in the film. Are you a hat person now? he asks derisively of Harpers style choice for the day. And on and on it goes through various neighborhoods on a palpably steamy late summer day in Brooklyn. After suffering through exhaustion, caffeine withdrawal, hunger, confusion and a brutal argument that neither of these studiously blas women was prepared for, they eventually reach the beach. Its not a spoiler  its the image on the poster. And heres where theyre finally forced to expose themselves in every sense of the word. To this point, Elliott and McNulty have navigated the highs and lows of their adventure  and their friendship  quite deftly. By the conclusion, they actually make you feel sorry for their characters because you realize that they finally understand how deeply and hopelessly lost they are. The fact that their destination ends up being so desolate effectively adds to their feeling of isolation.   Just as its difficult to decide whether to like or hate Harper and Allie, its hard to determine whether the end of Fort Tilden offers a moment of hope or resignation. As much as Bliss and Rogers are indicting the worst qualities of todays post-collegiate generation, they also seem interested in exploring how young people use cynicism or cruelty to deflect their own insecurity or fear of responsibility. When Allie describes a song as tediously adorable, the intriguing contradiction is all-too fitting. 