The convergence of insanity and creativity has long been a fascinating source for fiction. So many of our most interesting creative voices have dealt with mental illness certainly a subject in open discussion right now with the recent passing of  Robin Williams, and, while  Lenny Abrahamsons Frank has been billed as a wacky comedy about a guy with a fake head which it partially is, its also a dissection of this intersection, driven by a remarkably physical performance by Michael Fassbender. Can you be both creatively brilliant and normal? Can you be mentally damaged and creative within that shattered worldview? And these questions arent overly highlighted or treated preciously in Frank, a film that is always interesting, largely thanks to an entirely committed cast and a writer willing to play with themes like a band improvising until it finds the right tune. There are a few off-key notes but the melody finally comes together. Jon  Domhnall Gleeson, son of Brendan is a struggling songwriter who stumbles upon his breakthrough when he sees a member of the band Soronpfrbs essentially trying to drown himself. Offering to the bands manager Don  Scoot McNairy that he could perhaps fill in on that nights show, Jon doesnt seem to take the warning that the shoes hes filling could have become waterlogged by virtue of being in a band of crazy people. Theres Clara Maggie Gyllenhaal, the theremin player who aggressively hates Jon from minute one' Baraque Francoise Civil and Nana Carla Azar, who dont seem to speak English other than when it suits them' and, of course, theres Frank Michael Fassbender, the musical genius of a lead singer who happens to wear a giant papier mache head. Why? Who knows? Whats underneath? Who knows? Although Frank will explain his facial expressions to you to make conversation easier. What must have happened to Frank to force him to shut out the outside world by hiding his window to it? The bulk of Frank takes place at a retreat at which Soronpfrbs works to record new material. And works. And works. Songwriting often takes a back seat to recording odd sounds, running through the woods, taking a dip in the hot tub and general forms of insanity. Frank does most of the writing but its material that even alternative music fans would likely dismiss. Months and months of working on new music pushes Jon to question what hes doing there, especially after his savings begins to finance the retreat rental fees. And he asks such questions publicly, posting confessional and rehearsal videos on YouTube. Wouldnt you know it, Soronpfrbs becomes something of a viral sensation and theyre asked to play SXSW. What could possibly go wrong? Frank is perfectly cast. Gleeson has the right balance of everyman and artist to convey Jons difficulty in being the most normal member of a crazy band. At what point do you give up on artistic expression? When the rest of your artists seem entirely unconcerned with your input? When they start physically attacking each other? How about when your lead singer wont take off his fake head? Jon could have been a pure straight man our portal into the insane world of Frank but Gleeson brings just the right degree of charm to the role to make him feel well-rounded without stealing focus from the title character or the action of the piece.   In the end, Frank is about Fassbenders performance, one that only gets richer as the film goes along. Hiding the most utilized tool of an actor under an unexpressive mask forces Fassbender to express his character's arc in different ways. The physicality of a mentally troubled soul is evident even though we never see his face. Watch the way Fassbender uses his body in the recording scenes, as if its been electrified by the creative process. And carefully watch the way he responds to setbacks, as if his muscles are actually shrinking as he tries to hide deeper under his protective cover. Its a great performance. There are some tonal imbalances in Frank" and I wish it had as much visual personality and quirkiness as its narrative, but that seems a bit appropriate for a band thats a bit atonal anyway. Soronpfrbs sounds sometimes like Interpol, who sounded a lot like Joy Division, itself led by a deeply troubled young man with undeniable creative depth. Can insanity, normalcy and creativity co-exist in a successful artist? Frank offers a unique, funny, entertaining look at what proves to be an unanswerable question. 