A skillfully written and acted gay love story about two young men of Chinese ancestry,  Ray Yeungs Front Cover has a title that evokes the differences in its main characters. Ryan  Jake Choi, a New York fashion stylist, aims his energies toward the front covers of magazines. Ning  James Chen, a movie star from China, also projects himself into the public eye, but uses his image as something else a cover for his real self. The film begins by immersing us in Jakes world, where openly gay men are the rule rather than the exception. He works hard styling models for photo shoots, and though he seems to be climbing the career ladder adroitly, its clear hes not completely established yet: one misstep and he could go hurtling downward again. Thats why every job is a challenge, and the assignment to style Ning, an Asian star hoping to break into the American market, is particularly tricky. Nings handler tells Ryan that Ning has already fired one stylist, and now he definitely wants one with a Chinese background. But Ryan obviously doesnt consider himself particularly Chinese, and when he meets Ning for the first time in a Chinatown restaurant, the situation seems designed to thwart rather than establish communication: the star has brought a boisterous, obsequious entourage with him and forces endless amounts of food on everyone. The entourage creates an immediate barrier the next time the two meet, forcing Ryan to say that he can only work with the star if they can interact one-on-one. Ning gives way on that front, but soon has his own objection: he doesnt like that Ryan is so open about his homo side. This is not only a clash of personalities but of cultures as well. Ning looks askance at gay men holding hands on the street, something evidently still less common in Beijing than in New York. Yet Ning has reasons ones perhaps going beyond strictly career concerns for adapting to this environment, at least temporarily, so he gradually accommodates himself to Ryan and his milieu. Yet its Ryan whos in for the biggest changes. His life seems to be consumed by obsessive work and desultory socializing. Though hes attractive, theres no mention of past boyfriends or romances in his life' he evidently contents himself with Internet hookups. A self-described potato queen an Asian gay man attracted to white men, he has a sexual identity that obviously connects with other issues, especially his unadmitted discomfort with his Chinese roots. The strictly professional relationship between the two men verges toward friendship due to complications that involve race and cultural identity. In one highly charged scene, a bullying, Bruce Weber-like photographer casts racial aspersions at both Asians, which unites them in indignant fury even as it upends their most important shoot.   Then theres the day Ning accompanies Ryan and his parents  Elizabeth Sung and Ming Lee on a day trip to Staten Island, an outing that draws the two young men together in unexpected ways. Though Ryan tries to project an everythings cool demeanor, and says his parents accepted his sexuality long ago, its clear that theyre trying their best to be supportive while never being entirely comfortable with his orientation. But theyd never seen their son with a Chinese guy, and mistaking Ning for a romantic interest, theyre happy that hes at least not spurning his heritage. For his part, Ning takes bemused pleasure in play-acting the role of the new boyfriend. The transition from distrust to wary friendship to something more passionate in a movie like this depends a lot on the writing, and Yeungs is subtle and assured, tracing an emotional arc thats believably nuanced. It also benefits from exceptionally strong lead performances. As Ning, Chen has no trouble summoning a stars charisma while also suggesting his hidden side. And Chois Ryan, a terrific debut, gives us a young man of real complexity whos in the throes of self-discovery and apparently first love. While the film adheres to the conventions of romantic melodramas in a way that guarantees the two characters will end up in each others arms, its fascinations from a cultural perspective remain strong throughout. If it can be said that every cross-cultural story like this eventually tilts toward one culture over the other, one thing thats notable about Front Cover and that sets it apart from  Ang Lees nominally similar  The Wedding Banquet is that, though set in New York, its perspective and espoused values are finally more Chinese than American. If thats surprising, its in keeping with the emotional journey of a young man learning that identity is not only about sexuality. 