Frontera is a well-cast, well-made, well-acted drama that you will probably forget about soon after youve seen it. Thats not to say that director  Michael Berry does anything wrong with his feature debut. He and co-writer Luis Moulinet certainly deserve credit for approaching the relevant and polarizing topic of illegal immigration from a humanistic perspective rather than a political one. They clearly have the best of intentions to enlighten, not provoke. But in admirably trying to see all sides and depict dramatic situations in a way thats totally lacking in melodrama, Berry also has made a film that feels a bit too detached and a bit too tidy at the end. This is essentially a Western version of  Crash: Its fine when it might have been powerful and even great. Hes certainly assembled some strong actors in telling the story of intertwined lives along the Arizona-Mexico border, including  Ed Harris,  Eva Longoria and  Michael Pena whose presence inevitably invites Crash comparisons. But for the most part, theyre trapped in one-dimensional roles: the stoic lawman, the loyal wife, the proud immigrant. Harris has a look and demeanor that are tailor-made for this kind of material, though, with his lean, craggy face and blue, steely eyes. Hes totally solid as always and does everything just right as a retired sheriff named Roy, whos enjoying a quiet life on his ranch with his wife, Olivia  Amy Madigan, Harris real-life wife, and their horses. But he finds his peace shattered when Olivia is killed while trying to help a couple of young Mexican men whove crossed the border and entered the couples land. This is not a spoiler, folks  it happens very early on in the story. One of them, Penas decent-hearted and hardworking Miguel, is wrongly accused of murder. Hed come to the United States in hopes of making a better life for his family, as so many people do daily, but he happened to be nearby when the deadly incident occurred. Frontera isnt so much a whodunit, because we know whos responsible from the beginning. Its more of an exploration of what will happen to this innocent man, and whether all the figures involved can get past their inherent racism in order to reach the truth  and, ultimately, some forgiveness. Meanwhile, Miguels pregnant wife, Paulina Longoria, decides to make the arduous trek into the United States herself to track down her husband when it becomes clear that hes in trouble. What she endures once she leaves her little girl and her parents and entrusts her fate with a group of predatory coyotes is harrowing. The thoroughly de-glammed Desperate Housewives star is convincing as she dares to delve into more substantially dramatic territory  so much so that you wish there were more to her character.   Frontera also views this situation from the perspective of several Americans, including cruel and clueless people who seek to stop illegal immigration in their own way for sheer sport. Theres also the stray Border Patrol agent here and there whos happy to look the other way for a little cash. The film presents the machinery of immigrant smuggling in detailed ways, from the discarded clothes and empty water bottles that are strewn eerily along quiet, dusty roads to the cramped and dirty quarters these people often must share once they arrive in the United States. At the same time, Berrys film offers some beautiful and traditional Western imagery, full of warm sunsets and rustic vistas and horseback rides to the accompaniment of a sweeping score. And after making some surprising choices and delivering difficult scenarios in a matter-of-fact way, he ties everything up with a highly metaphorical conclusion thats more than a little hokey. Maybe hes a romantic  or at least an optimist  at heart after all. 