About  years ago I met a fine artist, a painter, on a train trip to visit a mutual friend. We discussed our respective professionsenthusiasms, and she told me that as a rule she hated movies about painters because they were almost uniformly false to the point of being corny in their depiction of the act of painting. One exception, she said, was the then-recent Life Lessons, the Martin-Scorsese-directed episode of the   New York Stories, in which Nick Nolte played an abstract painter. That movie got it, she said. I was glad to hear it, as I enjoyed the movie too, but I also said that as someone who had little clue about how painting was actually accomplished, I could enjoy Vincente Minnellis Lust For Life regardless.  Writers have less of a hard time with movies about writers, because the act of writing is something thats somewhat pointless to depict visually, so you kind of cant go wrong. But theres also a kind of inherent futility in using a visual medium to convey the interior machinations of the creative act. Its helpful, then, in concocting movies about writers, to choose or create writers who are oversized personalities, men and women who do a lot more than spend time hunched over a desk wrestling with their own thoughts. The movie Genius, directed by  Michael Grandage from a script by  John Logan, does not lack for those. The central figure, though, is not a writer but an editor, the real-life Maxwell Perkins, a man whose most pronounced eccentricity, it seems, involved almost never taking his hat off. Genius is the story of book man Perkins, friend and collaborator to the likes of  Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, who play significant roles here, and the way Perkins took on and tamed the fiery poetic work of North-Carolina-born visionary or blowhard, depending on which literary critic you consult Thomas Wolfe.  Perkins is played with reserve, hidden warmth, and scrupulous intelligence by  Colin Firth, while Wolfes role goes to  Jude Law, who is more than well suited to declaim and thunder and be completely madly unreasonable in time-tested crazed-genius style. Perkins spends his days in the very woody offices of Scribners, red-penciling such future masterpieces as A Farewell To Arms. In the evening he takes the train home to a handsome secluded home where wait his wife and five lovely, literate daughters. One day his office receives a ragged manuscript thats more stack than sheaf. O Lost, it is titled, and the words that follow that title, about the lost wandering lonely souls, somehow grip the taciturn Perkins. When Wolfe drops in at Perkins office, the writer is so cluelessly effusive that Perkins can barely get a word in edgewise, not even to tell him that Scribners is accepting the oft-rejected novel. The movie then spends a little while simulating how writer and editor honed down the stack to create what would come to be called Look Homeward, Angel. If you have any feel for writing, and I suppose if you particularly have any feel for Wolfes writing, youll find the exchanges between editor and author exhilarating. Logans script, based on A. Scott Bergs biography of Perkins, is invested in the craft of words like few other movies nowadays, even those ostensibly about writers. And if you have no particular concern for writing, the emotional drama is not insignificant.  Nicole Kidman plays Aline Bernstein, a married woman whos Wolfes lover and unofficial patron, and her scorn upon seeing her place in Wolfes life become supplanted on account of Perkins presence commands attention. As for Perkins, Wolfe starts looking like the son he and wife Louise  Laura Linney very clearly tried for but never had. As success goes to Wolfes head, though, Perkins gets inklings that he may have created an ego monster, while Wolfe himself insists that Perkins loosen up and follow him to the places where he finds the dark rhythms that inspire me. As for Hemingway  Dominic West and Fitzgerald  Guy Pearce, they make their concern andor disapproval known from the sidelines.    It could be that I see so many dumb movies these days that Im inclined to cut a lot of slack for one of conspicuous intelligence, but I greatly enjoyed Genius. To the extent that its made me interested in checking out more Wolfe, who Ive avoided like the plague since not enjoying his dialect short story Only The Dead Know Brooklyn.  Im not the only one who was at least slightly taken aback, though, by a persistent quirk in the movies casting, which is that not one of the Lions of American Literature in this picture was played by, well, an American. Firth is British, Law is British, Dominic West is British, Guy Pearce is Australian and so is Nicole Kidman. What about Zelda Fitzgerald, you sexist? I can hear somebody saying. Well, yeah. She IS depicted in the movie also. By  Vanessa Kirby. A British actor. They all do their jobs pretty splendidly though so I cant really complain. But I did notice. As well you might, too. 