Mike Flanagan reportedly carried around a copy of Geralds Game to meetings because it was the  Stephen King book he dreamed of adapting since he was a teenager. This is arguably a sign of insanity. Not only is it considered one of Kings lesser works, but it takes place almost entirely in inner monologue and memory, with its only major character handcuffed to a bed. In other words, it always felt deeply impossible to adapt into a film, and thats not even getting into the downright silly ending. And yet Flanagan used the deserved credibility garnered from the success of  Oculus, Hush and  Ouija: Origin of Evil to finally make his teenage dreams come true. The result is further proof that this filmmaker is for real. He has made just about the best version of Geralds Game that could result from not majorly overhauling the book, and delivered a film, premiering today on Netflix, that stands as the best King adaptation of the year so far which includes the disappointing  The Dark Tower and shockingly huge  It, although the upcoming  could dethrone it in a few weeks.   A man smiles lovingly as he handcuffs his wife to a bed at a remote vacation home. The man is a successful attorney named Gerald BruceGreenwood, and his wife is named Jessie  Carla Gugino. We can tell immediately that not everything is going smoothly in this union, but its the kind of marital speedbump that can hopefully be overcome with some  Sam Cooke and some Viagra. Oh, and maybe a little role-playing. With an early overhead shot, Flanagan has revealed that Gerald packed handcuffs, and hes eager to use them. When he starts becoming excited over the fact that no one could hear a handcuffed Jessie and covers her mouth with his hand, she tries to call it off. She doesnt feel sexy' she feels objectified. Uncuff me and we can talk, she says. He replies, What if I wont? That loosely-veiled threat doesnt pay out, however, because Gerald has a heart attack, dropping dead right on top of her. She pushes his body off, and realizes the sheer horror of her predicament, handcuffed to a bed, too far away for anyone to hear her screams.  What might seem goofy or even silly is played for terror instantly as Gugino conveys the multiple horrors of a rape fantasy gone wrong, dead husband, and a trapped woman all within minutes. Flanagan trusts Gugino completely, keeping us locked with Jessie as long as conceivably possible. He also gets around the inner monologue problem of the book by allowing a lot of that exposition to come as an increasingly-hallucinating Jessie having conversations with a now-mobile Gerald and even a tougher version of herself. The scenes between Gugino and Greenwood are phenomenally written as the actress plays the realism of her predicament and Greenwood recognizes that hes playing an exaggerated version of Gerald, the one his wife would envision. The idea that Jessie would have visions of a devil and angel on her shoulder to get her out of her situation is interesting enough but even more so when you consider that the angel is a tougher version of herself and the devil is her now-dead husband.  Flanagan has become more and more confident as a craftsman with each film. Here he knows that less is more, never resorting to the techniques that a lot of filmmakers would have used to make up for the lack of story. Instead of loud jump scares or quick cuts, he pulls out score for most of the film and goes with long takes, putting us in the room with Jessie and her husbands body. We only leave that space when absolutely necessary, for an essential flashback that adds deeper subtext to this story, revealing that Jessie has a dark past she once buried but that could now be the key to saving her life. Its an incredibly well-made film, and Flanagan gets the best performances hes directed yet from Gugino and Greenwood its great to see them get such juicy roles.     Any diehard King fan will tell you that the authors biggest problem is endings. For years, it was almost a joke that King didnt know how to wrap up even his best books. His ending for Geralds Game is atrocious, and youd be better off turning this off about ten minutes before the credits and just imagining what happens. Ill say this he does about as good a job with Kings ending as I think he possibly could have, even finding a neat visual trick in the closing scenes that helps tie Jessies story together thematically. Still, its remarkable that Flanagan didnt decide to completely alter the twisty ending, but it shows how loyal he was to bringing the challenges of this novel to the big screen intact. 