Divisive politics, a health-care plan in limbo, those darn Russians, triple-digit temps. If ever there was a moment when we as a nation needed to let off some steam and chill, it has arrived. Just in the nick of time, the multiplex offers just such a chance to sit back, take a deep cleansing breath and let go of any pent-up anxiety. That is, for those who can handle hard-R-rated content such as an act of intimacy known as grapefruiting that does for citrus what Theres Something About Mary did for hair gel. Judging by the contagious outbursts of shock, awe and guffaws at my raucous screening of Girls Trip, courtesy of a full house of primarily African-American women along with a smattering of men folk who were invited for the occasion, the best way to exhale these days is to simply laugh as one. Girls Trip is the ladies-on-the-loose comedy that everyone needs right now, even if they dont know it yet. Yes, this is another equal-opportunity ensemble of females gone wild, most recently observed in the subpar  Bad Moms and  Rough Night. While  Bridesmaids and the  Sex and the City franchise might have redefined such bosom-buddy bonding while trafficking in the usual raunchy, rude and rowdy behavior, Girls Trip, with its epic two-hour length, apparently aims to be the Lord of the Rings of sisters doing it for themselves, one that gets a whole lot right that the others too often get wrong. By now, director  Malcolm D. Lee knows how to stock a cast full of top-shelf talent as proven by The Best Man films and  Barbershop: The Next Cut. But he outdoes himself as a matchmaker this time by gathering an insanely likable and capable quartet of actresses to play the college chums who proudly proclaim themselves as the Flossy Posse. Headlining these grads of the class of  is  Regina Hall, a regular in Lees Best Man films, who is promoted to lead as Ryan Pierce, a sleekly pulled-together self-help guru and best-selling author of a book, You Can Have It All which, for her, includes her retired NFL star husband and business partner, Stewart  Mike Colter of Netflixs Luke Cage. But, of course, her all is not what it seems and she suddenly gets the urge to use her appearance as a keynote speaker at the Essence Festival in New Orleans to reunite with her friends after many years apart and allow them to share in her luxury accommodations. They include  Queen Latifah as Sasha, a celebrity gossip blogger who fell out with Ryan after she nixed their website deal, and  Jada Pinkett Smith as Lisa, a prim and proper divorced nurse and mother of two who used to be a sexual dynamo back in the day. This is the pairs first outing together since s bank-heist thriller " Set It Off" and dont think Girls Trip doesnt duly sneak in a reference to that oldie. But they and everyone else are forced to take a backseat to the films motor-mouth of mass dysfunction known as  Tiffany Haddish. Her hard-partying Dina, who lives to stir up trouble, is to Girls Trip what  Melissa McCarthy was to Bridesmaids and  Kate McKinnon was to Ghostbusters one-of-a-kind breakouts who commit grand larceny in every scene. Dinas best trait is her unwavering loyalty to her posse. Her worst is a penchant for hair-trigger acts of aggression which we first observe when she assaults a male co-worker who has dared to steal her Go-Gurt. As for her love life, lets just say she is the type who is ecstatic to learn that her STD diagnosis is only chlamydia.   Soon we land in the chaotic French Quarter, where a brass band does a peppy version of Lovely Day. Everything is selfies and smiles until Sasha receives a paparazzi photo on her phone that shows Stewart canoodling with an Instagram skank known as Simone  Deborah Ayorinde. Money-strapped Sasha must face the moral dilemma of whether she should cash in on revealing to the world Ryans marital woes or protect her privacy. But, in between, there is plenty to keep these pals pre-occupied. That includes VIP backstage passes to the Superdome where performers include Bell Biv DeVoe, Common, Maxwell,  Mariah Carey and Sean Diddy Combs, who yanks Dina up onstage after she flashes her glitter-sprinkled breasts. Other cameos include author  Terry McMillan,  Selma director  Ava DuVernay and chef Carla Hall. Men, of course, come into the picture. That includes a crusty old flasher, a definite ew moment for the ages. But Smiths Lisa finally gets lucky actually, too lucky as those who have seen the red-band trailer know when a gorgeous young college student  Kofi Siriboe attempts to woo her. Meanwhile, Ryan runs into old college flame Julian  Larenz Tate, a bassist for  Ne-Yo, and flirtatious sparks tentatively fly. But what will propel word of mouth are the outrageous moments that go where others have declined before. Whereas no actual poop was exploited in the infamous diarrhea outbreak in Bridesmaids, a rain shower of urine pours down upon the denizens of Bourbon Street not just once but twice. And if you ever wanted to see Queen Latifah make out with a floor lamp, this is your chance courtesy of a run-in with -year-old absinthe. Screenwriters  Kenya Barris creator of Black-ish and  Tracy Oliver Survivors Remorse know how to get the party started and keep it lively. That is until matters are awkwardly forced to take a serious whiplash turn that drags down the final half-hour when many difficult truths must be confronted. But probably what most distinguishes Girls Trip from other such comedies is that these four black actresses in their late s and mid-s play adults who are honest, grounded and devoted to one another, differences be damned. Such cruelty-free comedy is a beautiful thing to see. And if grapefruit sales explode in the coming days, you will know why. 