Right off the bat, Alonso Ruizpalacios Geros captures three superlatives from this reviewer: Best debut feature Ive seen in the last year, best Mexican film in recent memory, and best black and white cinematography since  Pawel Pawlikowskis equally stunning but very different  Ida. Lauded at numerous international film festivals since it debuted last year at Berlin where it won Best First Feature, the offbeat comedy might also be called the most creative recent engagement with the cinematic past, especially the French New Wave, but thats a subject that deserves both explication and rumination, so lets start with the basics. The year is . Toms  Sebastin Aguirre is a teenage troublemaker who lives in Veracruz with his mother, whom hes driving crazy. One day, when he drops a water bomb off a roof and it hits a harried woman and her baby, mom decides she cant take it any more and sends the boy to stay with his older brother, Federico, a.k.a. Sombra  Tenoch Huerta, a college student in Mexico City. Geros is a film of running jokes, and one concerns the siblings skin colors. The word geros, a derogatory slang term meaning something like paleface or whitey, applies to fair-skinned Toms. Sombra the nickname means shade is dark, meanwhile. That practically everyone they meet seems to remark on this difference is never explained, but that somehow makes it ever droller. When Toms arrives in Mexico City, he finds his bro holed up in his incredibly filthy high-rise dorm room with his roommate and partner in slackerdom Santos  Leonardo Ortizgris. At night, they live by candlelight, if that, because theres no electricity. Daytime, they sometimes cadge power via a cord supplied by their downstairs neighbors mentally challenged daughter. Santos and Sombra are nominally students, but theyre not in class because their school is on strike. So why arent they out demonstrating? Were on strike from the strike, they explain. In other words, theyre completely inert and disengaged, living on fumes and not interested in doing otherwise. Ironically, its the arrival of young screw-up Toms that injects some motion into their lives. The boy idolizes a legendary Mexican rocknroll pioneer named Epigmeneo Cruz Alfonso Charpener, whose music he listens to on a battered cassette handed down from his and Sombras absent father. When Toms learns that Cruz is reportedly near death at a hospital in the city, he persuades Sombra and Santos that they must find him and pay their final respects.  That, plus the fact that their downstairs neighbor wants to beat their asses for stealing his power, propels the guys out onto the highway in their shitty clunker, on an odyssey that takes them through many cul de sacs and wrong turns but also includes a stop at their embattled university.   Here, the films desultory pacing and whimsical mood give way to something much more electrifying: a university in the tumult of revolution. The situation is both dramatically and thematically important, so its worth quoting Ruizpalacios words on it. In April , he wrote, the Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico UNAM students began to strike to show their disagreement with the administrations decision to instate an enrollment fee even though the University had always been free.What started as a symbol of dissidence it turned out to be the biggest movement since the  student strikes finished as an existential crisis for many involved. Before long, social disparities began to surface within the student movement, causing distance between people who were involved. A lot people found themselves not only without a university, but without a purpose in life, no beliefs, nowhere to belong. Geros, he continued, is actually two movies in one. On one hand, it is a portrait of this particular stage in Mexicos history. On the otherit is an exploration of Mexican youth who are not able to feel at ease in their own country. This double purpose is a fascinating concept on the thematic level, and it has a corollary on the formal level that gives the films specifically Mexican social and historical concerns a universal cinematic reach. For, just as the story implicitly looks from the student activism of the moment particularly related to the disappearance of  students in Guerrero state last year back toward the s brand via  when issues of identity politics began to intrude, so do the films filmic references harken back toward such films as Godards Breathless and other s classics, but through the prism of more recent works such as  Stranger Than Paradise,  Slacker and others. That scheme of references may sound a bit dense on paper, but it helps explain why the films New Wave evocations come across not as static or precious idolatry as purely aesthetic tributes tend to make them but as part of an active, challenging dialectic that involves both politics and movies. In a sense, Geros asks the viewer what the s were worth, in terms of its innovative popular art and its political radicalism which of course were completely intertwined. Yet it doesnt assume there are any clear-cut or easy answers. If the film comes at us with a heady appreciation for both the movies and revolutionary impulses of , it does so with a witty circumspection that admits that their value has been continually amended and complicated by more recent developments.   And while Ruizapalacios has admitted other influences ranging from Ozu to Fellini to  Monte Hellman, the New Wave does seem to be his pole star. You get that in the films focus on marginal, quasi-hipster characters' its self-reflexivity and cascade of cinematic and pop-culture nods' its winningly naturalistic performances, jerky, stop-start plotting and geographic peregrinations the director has called it a road movie about Mexico City' and, most especially, in Damin Garcias exultant camerawork, which has a fluid, observant lyricism worthy of ace New Wave lensman  Raoul Coutard. In one sense, the film is a great lark, a dizzy road trip with some entertaining knuckleheads, both light-skinned and dark. Yet it also manages to be a movie with some serious things on its mind, for those who want to think about what its saying. More than perhaps any other country, Mexico has lobbed some real cinematic intelligence onto the world stage in recent years. Geros continues that salutary tradition. A sly, insouciant masterpiece, it marks Alonso Ruizpalacios as a talent to watch. 