Its been some time since Joel and  Ethan Coen have made a full-out comedy. The producing, writing, and directing and editing, too, albeit under an assumed name brother teams last three films,  A Serious Man, True Grit, and  Inside Llewyn Davis, certainly havent lacked for funny moments. But Man was an apocalyptic riff painted on two inches of ivory, True Grit a rousing adventure that gradually mutated into a memory play about loss and mortality, and Llewyn Davis was at least in part a deeply sad story of inescapable existential failure. In other words, pretty heavy st. Their new film, Hail Caesar! is an exhilarating switchup: A comic fable thats both deftly clever and irrepressibly goofy. It is also, from stem to stern, the sweetest and sunniest film the Coens have ever made. Although you might not guess that from its opening shot, of a sculpture of a crucified Christ figure in a Catholic church. Bear with me.  Set in an unspecified period in  th -century Hollywood some time between the end of World War II and  well, certainly before , although the movie is meticulously determined in certain ways to be as ahistorical as possible, Hail Caesar! depicts  or so hours in the life of one Eddie Mannix, played here with a beautiful combination of no-nonsense gruffness and tortured tenderness by  Josh Brolin.  The Coens took the name of their character from the real-life name of one of the more villainous figures in backstage Hollywood history he was played by  Bob Hoskins in the much darker Tinseltown riff Hollywoodland, but this entirely fictional Mannix is a harried ordinary-joe exec, Head Of Physical Production for a studio called Capitol Pictures. Capitol churns out conscientiously produced but hopelessly schlocky big pictures in a variety of genres, from Biblical epics to cornball oaters. On this day in the life, Mannix has a number of big problems to contend with. The front office wants Mannix to promote singing cowboy Hobie Doyle  Alden Ehrenreich from B-western star to romantic comedy leading man, much to the confusion of the eager-to-please Hobie himself, and the consternation of his new, exacting director, self-styled studio auteur Laurence Laurentz. The aquatic musical star DeeAnna Moran  Scarlett Johansson is newly pregnant, which is making her mermaid costume painful to wear, and on top of that, shes not sure if shes interested in marrying the father of her child, a refusal that would constitute a potential PR gaffe for a studio that prides itself on an All-American image. A pair of twin gossip columnists both played by Tilda Swinton are demanding answers to awkward questions and threatening to go public with an awkward story about the studios biggest matinee idol, Baird Whitlock  George Clooney. Finally, and most crucially, Whitlock himself has been kidnapped from the set of his Biblical epic, by a group of disgruntled Communist screenwriters who call themselves  The Future in their terse ransom note. In the meantime, Mannix must deal with his personal demons: hes a devout Catholic who almost compulsively goes to confession, much to the exasperation of his otherwise kindly and indulgent confessor. He frets over having told his loving wife that hes going to quit smoking, and then sneaking some cigarettes during his stress-filled day. Hes also being aggressively courted by a recruiter from Lockheed, who tempts Eddie with a vested position, the promise of saner hours, and the chance to involve himself with something serious. How serious? This character shows Eddie a shot of a recent H-bomb test at Bikini Atoll. Lockheed was there, he intones. You can tell this character is the devil because he always offers Eddie a cigarette when they meet.  The Coens being the Coens, they cannot, or rather do not, resist the temptation to take what were and remain serious matters not-terribly-seriously' in their funhouse mirror mashup of s Hollywood, the ostensible Red Scare was no scare at all but rather a Cold War component in which a big Hollywood star might conceivably defect to play Soviet Man for Mosfilm. Once in the hands of his kidnappers, the amiable but boneheaded Whitlock poor George Clooney, playing his fourth idiot for the Coen Brothers, is stuck in a goofy Roman Centurion costume and haircut for the whole movie is instructed in Marxist logic by no less a personage than Dr. Herbert Marcuse himself. Okay, hes only referred to as Professor Marcuse, but actor John Bluthal is made up to look like the actual figure. All this cockeyed revisionist history may inspire scary thoughts of  Steven Spielbergs ostensibly disastrous  comedy . And to tell you the truth, there is more than a bit of broad, blithely unserious japery at play here. One also recalls The Hudsucker Proxy and the Sam Raimi-directed, Coen-Brothers-co-written Crimewave. But the Coen Brothers have funnier jokes than Spielberg did, and they also know their real stuff at an almost dangerous level in the new commentary to Inside Llewyn Davis on the Criterion Collection disc, writers Robert Christgau and Sean Wilentz marvel at a throwaway Max Schactman reference in the movie that flew over the heads of   th  percent of viewers, and here they present an American Communist Party membership card replete with a Gus Hall signature.    You can miss or ignore so many of these details and still enjoy the exquisite clockwork mechanism of the movies plot, andor the various pastiches of old movies it offers up in differing manifestations. The goofily, cluelessly homoerotic No Dames musical number, starring a game-as-always Channing Tatum, is a highlight, as is the near-pornographic whale-spouting imagery of the Busby-Berkeley-inflected Johansson-showcasing water ballet. Around the time of  The Big Lebowski I asked the Coens if they were influenced by the Technicolor musical films of  Michael Powell and  Emeric Pressburger, and they were characteristically cagey in response' here they acknowledge their fandom by scoring the water dance to a bit from Offenbachs Tales of Hoffmann. The movies performances are all spectacularly rewarding, but Ehrenreich practically steals the picture as the completely ingenuous singing cowboy who aint quite as dumb as he seems, not by a long shot.  The movie makes light of the dialectic as explained to Baird by Marcuse, but it also, in its tricky way, continually invitescompels the viewer to use it. Eddie Mannix is a good man who is very good at his job but his job seems to be manufacturing schlock. People enjoy schlock, but schlock is arguably an agent of The Peoples oppression, so  anyway, one neednt go on. Suffice it to say that in the cosmology of the delightful Hail Caesar!, regardless of the conclusions to which dialectical thinking may lead, acceptance is the key, and Hollywood, while problematic, is more a force for good than the military-industrial complex can ever hope to be. And, finally, doing the right thing is an instinct shared by both company men and singing cowboys, for whatever thats worth. 