What can one say, finally, about a film in which Mark-Paul Gosselaar of Saved By The Bell fame actually gives a more commanding performance than co-star  Robert De Niro of Robert De Niro fame? I understand that the comparison may evoke something in the way of a youve got to see it to believe it challenge, but Im not offering any refunds on your ticket purchase to Heist should you choose to act on that incorrect interpretation.  Directed by  Scott Mann from a screenplay and story by Max Adams and  Stephen Cyrus Sepher the latter is also an actor, and has a role in the film' I dont know what it says about Sepher that he wrote what turns out to be a pretty much completely nothing part for himself, but it is odd, Heist begins nastily, with Morris Chestnut and De Niro playing gangsterish fellows indulging in some sadistic torture. The scene is credibly nasty. Overplayed, in fact, in the tradition of contemporary cheapie crime movies that feel obligated to tell the viewer right away that they mean business, and the business isnt going to be pleasant. Now I know crime doesnt pay, but I also remember that crime movies can be fun. This gets off on a sodden foot right away, and thats not even the worst of it. Things soon quiet down, with a dark-haired young woman waiting for a bus in the quiet late evening' her sit is intercut with frantic views of two men in masks running furiously, accompanied by loud music and sound effects that announce that something INTENSE is GOING DOWN AGAIN. One isnt ten minutes in, and the movie has sapped ones will to live.  Which is kind of too bad. Theres actually a not-too bad caper plot underneath the incoherent over-direction from Mann. Jeffrey Dean Morgan, who, given his efforts here and in the recently-unceremoniously-dumped-into-theaters mess  Shanghai, maybe deserves the sobriquet Hardest Working Man For What Turns Out To Be No Good Reason In Show Business, plays a dealer on an Alabama casino boat who cant pay for his beloved daughters operation. Operation for what? you ask. Are you really asking? They never really say, honest. Its that kind of movie. So he goes to his boss, De Niros Frank Pope nicknamed, yes, The Pope for a favor, is rudely turned down, and so assents to co-worker  Dave Bautista, who acts just like a pro wrestler and has an idea about knocking off the place and taking out some dirty, dirty money.  Of course things go wrong, and even very wrong this sort of thing happens when youre working from a plan that was sketched out in salt literally on a diner table and the action gets woolier and wilder a bus hijacking! The bus is running out of gas! Several SWAT teams show up! Black-clad figures on motorcycles too! the plot gets thicker De Niros mean casino owner may be dying and he has a socially-conscious adult daughter who hates his corrupt guts and corrupt money! The  p.m. deadline for surgery payment looms hard! and the cast gets more motley the Saved By The Bell fellow pops in as a cocky police detective, while  Gina Carano plays a patrol car cop with a heart of gold but line readings of wood. Im making it sound better than it is. What it is is noisy, noisome, bloody, obnoxious, and more. Mann completely muffs material that, if given a rewrite by  David Mamet and then even directed by him, could have been as good a movie as David Mamets own, um ... Heist, which had its problems but didnt pound you into a state in which you actually envy migraine sufferers. 