In , film critic and French New Wave director  Franois Truffaut sat down with  Alfred Hitchcock to record a week-long interview about Hitchcocks entire body of work. These sessions beget HitchcockTruffaut, a book whose raison d'tre was to show American critics that they were underestimating the cinematic richness of Hitchcocks work. At the time, Hitchcock had been deemed a director of entertaining movies, lacking substance and importance. Despite his fifth directing Oscar nod for Psycho, Hitchcock was mainly seen as a director for the unwashed masses of general audiences. Truffaut aimed to fix that, and the resulting book is a master class in the fine art of directing, filled with photographs and the Master of Suspenses candid observations of his oeuvre. Since its first edition published in , HitchcockTruffaut has been a staple and a fixture of any cinephiles bookshelf. Fast-forward to , where film critic and documentarian  Kent Jones brings us the movie version of this essential book. Jones take on HitchcockTruffaut is equal parts adaptation, CliffsNotes guide and commentary by a slew of directors influenced by Hitchcocks work. The film is also a completely entertaining and informative gift to movie lovers, a work constructed with care, humor and insight. Though Hitchcock made his last movie  Family Plot"  years ago, he continues to influence in an almost transparent manner. Hitchcock is in the air that todays directors breathe, and HitchcockTruffaut aims to remind us of this fact. Jones supplements his film clips and interviews with audio from the original  hours of interview recordings  hours of which are available online. We hear Hitchcock discuss, in directorial terms, movies such as  Sabotage,  Vertigo and  The Lodger. We also hear Truffaut describing a scene from  The  Blows as a follow-up to Hitchs description of suspense vs. surprise.This is one of the most interesting passages in the film, a moment where the interviewer and the subject exchange places, comparing notes as footage of Truffauts film plays onscreen. Throughout HitchcockTruffaut, one gets the feeling that the visual nature of directing forces a filmmaker to deal with his or her obsessions, explicitly or implicitly. If you think you can hide your prurient interests as a director, youre crazy, says  David Fincher, one of several directors testifying before the camera. Fincher marvels at how blatantly Hitchcock expressed his own psychological traumas and aforementioned interests, several of which revolved around fear and sex. The famous story of how Hitchcocks father had him locked up by Scotland Yard as a child is recounted here, and Hitchcocks description of  Kim Novaks famous transformation scene in Vertigo has a frank sexuality thats as accurate as it is racy.In  James Grays opinion, this scene contains the greatest shot in the history of cinema.   HitchcockTruffaut spends a fair amount of time on Vertigo, which isnt surprising given that films current placement atop the Sight and Sound list.  Paul Schrader calls it a forbidden document.  Martin Scorsese discusses how difficult it was to get a copy of the film screened back in the 's, as Hitchcocks films were looked at with scorn and derision by the art theaters of the day.Since the film was not a success upon first run, Hitchcock sounds a bit reserved when talking about the film' people didnt discuss their flops back then. You have a problem with it? asks Truffaut. Hitchcock responds that he took issue with the hole in the story regarding the murderer. This is an interesting contrast to his view on the numerous plot holes in hits like North by Northwest." I have this saying, he tells Truffaut in regard to those who complain about implausibility: Logic is dull. Throughout HitchcockTruffaut, Jones gives us delicious quotes from the interview. "'The Lodger' is the first movie where I exercised any style,"says the man who started out in silent movies when he was . Before directing, Hitchcock wrote dialogue titles and used his engineering background to draw and layout scenes. Truffaut suggests that those who started out as silent film directors know something that those who started out in the sound era will never know. The lack of sound forced a purer evocation of the cinema as a visual medium. You can watch a Hitchcock movie with the sound off, were told, and youll still be able to follow it. This notion extends to the use of the suspense element for which Hitchcock is most known. The visuals transcend the language barrier. The Japanese audience should scream at the same time the Indian audience does, Hitchcock says. Jones uses a  Tippi Hedren scene from The Birds to supplement Hitchcocks discussion on how he uses space and an actors place within it to heighten tension, bringing out a particular element that I hadnt noticed in the numerous times Id seen the film. HitchcockTruffaut offers a lot of ideas to contemplate and discuss, especially if youre a lover of Hitchcocks works. Its most intriguing takeaway is a question Hitchcock posed to Truffaut. In so many words, he wonders if he should have experimented more with characters and if he had become a prisoner of my own form. Its a fascinating question, one I carried with me after I left the theater. Wisely, Jones doesnt provide any answers, for there isnt a definitive one to be had. Instead, he gives us David Finchers quote that there was a set of rules, and Hitchcock broke them all.   One interview subject you might be expecting is missing from HitchcockTruffaut."  Brian De Palma declined to appear in the film, but he had a good reason. He was busy sitting with  Noah Baumbach and  Jake Paltrow for their one-man interviewdocumentary, "De Palma." That film, which is also quite good, would make a great double feature with HitchcockTruffaut." Both films feature a director talking to another director about his body of work. The similarities are complementary, and I can think of no better way to waste an afternoon if you love movies. 