Daniel Radcliffe made his name battling evil in the Harry Potter movies. In Horns, Radcliffes latest effort to distance himself from the iconic boy wizard, he turns into the Devil himselfalbeit an angsty, hipster version. Radcliffe has an immensely appealing presence no matter what hes doing, and hes made inspired, daring choices to demonstrate his versatility outside of Harry Potter, from going nude on Broadway in  Equus to starring as a young  Allen Ginsberg in  Kill Your Darlings to playing an oversexed version of himself on HBOs Extras.  Horns would seem like another gamble, and another opportunity to stretch. Its a supernatural thriller, territory hes familiar with, but taken to a raunchy, grotesque extreme. But director  Alexandre Aja, whose background is mostly in straight-up horror  High Tension, The Hills Have Eyes, has trouble navigating the shifts between broad humor and intense scares. At the same time, some of the most entertaining moments come in the form of wildly graphic violence, reminiscent of Ajas hilariously campy Piranha D, but theres so much else happening here that those images almost feel like they belong in another movie. There are some clever ideas in the script from  Keith Bunin, based on the novel by  Joe Hill, but they get mixed up in some awkward tonal juggling. Radcliffe stars as Ignatius Perris, a young man whos wrongfully suspected in the gruesome killing of his childhood sweetheart, the ethereally beautiful Merrin  Juno Temple, wholike Radcliffeis effectively suppressing her English accent. Merrin is found with her head bashed in, lying at the foot of the tree house that was her hideaway with Ig, in the forest of a bleakly scenic Washington logging town. Nothing he says or does to clear his name works' with narrative glimmers of  Gone Girl but precious little of the subtlety, all evidence points to him. And the fact that the hard-drinking Ig cant remember exactly what happened because he was hammered that night doesnt help his cause. So he bitterly chooses to accept the role of villain, and in a twisted take on the wish fulfillment of Freaky  Friday , wakes up one morning to find that hornsactual, literal hornshave sprouted from his forehead. They hurt, as you would imagine, but they also bring another unexpected side effect: They cause everyone around him, from his family to his friends to complete strangers, to confess long-held secrets and desires. The only one who doesnt see the horns and still acts normally around him is his longtime best friend, Lee  Max Minghella, who also happens to be the public defender assigned to represent him.   The conceit of people telling him their deepest, most brutal truths is amusing and even startling, especially coming from his parents James Remar and  Kathleen Quinlan. But what begins as a candid exploration of basic human instinct turns into a silly and outlandish free-for-all. This is especially true in the case of  Heather Grahams character, a diner waitress who hopes to ride her peripheral involvement in Merrins death to reality-TV fame. A likably scruffy  Joe Anderson, as Igs jazz-musician older brother, also spins uncomfortably out of control when given permission to indulge his drug habit. Horns is similarly heavy-handed in its use of Garden of Eden symbolism, from the snakes that do Igs bidding to the flashbacks to a nubile and semi-nude Merrin dancing in the forest, bathed in soft, sensual lighting. And the diner where Grahams character worksthe scene of a pivotal moment between Ig and Merrin happens to be called Eves, complete with a neon sign of a red apple. And yet, within this overbearing and overlong tale, there are some individual moments that are really quite lovely, from the idyllic, pastoral beauty of the woods to the striking aerial shots of Pacific Northwest coastline.  Frederick Elmes, who shot  David Lynchs Eraserhead,  Blue Velvet and  Wild at Heart, is the cinematographer.  And Radcliffe, through his sheer presence and the piercing honesty of those big, blue eyes, makes this mixed-up material watchable. Hes scuzzy and tormented, drunk or hung-over most of the time, but his directness and his down-to-Earth demeanor give us something to latch onto, even though the Devil made him do it. 