The title Hungry Hearts is redolent of longing, and of course of  Bruce Springsteen, who wrote a similarly-titled song years ago the object organ was singular, not plural, offered it to The Ramones, got turned down, and made it into a chart hit for himself instead. Catchy tune. That this movie should use a variation on its title strikes me as false advertising. A better name for this movie would maybe be The Ghastly Ones. Directed by  Saverio Costanzo, the movie operates at a much higher level of craft than the Andy Milligan cheapie horror picture from which I lifted my suggested title. But it is an equally painful cinematic experience, and it is painful in a completely unrewarding way. It is earnest and tortured and pointless, in a very self-serious suffer-forwith-art fashion. It opens with its lead characters Jude  Adam Driver and Mina  Alba Rohrwacher stuck in the bathroom of a Chinese restaurant together. The meet-cute-in-the-era-of-Girls dialogue is de rigueur ickyfrank, with Jude apologizing for the unpleasant odor of his recent deposit to Mina prior to their rescue. Their awkward shared moment over, they fall into bed with each other, she discovers shes pregnant, the couple rush to be wed, and at their Coney Island wedding reception scene, the viewer is treated to a shot of a dead deer on the boardwalk outside their hipster-chintzy celebration venue. Symbolism, people.  Because Mina and Jude then move into a dreary walk-up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, just a few blocks from the Dakota, some folks whove written about this film have likened it to  Rosemarys Baby. This is off-base for several reasons, not the least of which is that you kind of like poor Rosemary in that movie. No, what Hungry Hearts most resembles is a nightmare enactment of Knocked Up: a couple that barely knows each other decide to embark on child-rearing together. Minas eccentricities in these matters are hinted at when she enthusiastically informs Jude that a psychic has deemed their yet-to-be-born baby an indigo child its kinda like when a psychic tells you, a person who has already been born, that you have a blue aura. Seems harmless enough. Only once the babys born, Mina puts it on a weird vegan regimen. Jude doesnt have the intestinal fortitude to resist this nonsense with any conviction, so he starts taking the kid to a church where he surreptitiously slips him the kid is never referred to by name some ham no, Im not making this up. Mina retaliates by force-feeding the child some kind of anti-nutrient oil. At this point, you may look at your watch. Imagine your surprise when you learn theres still about an hours worth of movie still to come.  This really is the sort of movie which, when you describe it to a relative whos asking you what youve reviewed lately presuming youre a movie reviewer, they would say, Who would want to see a movie like that? If the movie were actually a good one which I think in this case would be impossible, not because the material is so inherently intransigent, but because the specifics of the materials are contrived in such bad faith youd be left stammering impotently. But because the movie is this very bad one, you just say, Right? Adam Drivers a good actor, and Alba Rohrwachers maybe a too-good one, because I cant even input her name without feeling the absolute idiot hatefulness of the character she plays here, and Roberta Maxwell, who plays Judes mother and takes a decisive hand in the final quarter of the movie, is fine as well. But the film, which I think aspires to be about different varieties of love and how they can pull us in contradictory directions, is such a determined miserabilist slog that it only ever registers as a high- handed exercise in sadism. 