Taika Waititis Hunt for the Wilderpeople shouldnt work. Its the kind of project thats difficult to describe without making it sound clichd and sentimental. Its another coming-of-age tale, this one of a troubled teenager finding his place in the world deep in the mountains, with a man who never thought hed be a father figure. And yet Waititis film defies its convention through grounded characters, witty dialogue, compassionate filmmaking and inventive storytelling. Hunt for the Wilderpeople is consistently clever and even moving. Its proof that well keep listening to the familiar stories if theyre this well-told. Teenager Ricky  Julian Dennison is introduced as a real bad egg. Hes been shuttled around foster homes, getting in trouble for random juvenile things like loitering and graffiti. His officer, Paula  Rachel House takes No Child Left Behind as a threat, not a comfort, focusing on Ricky like a problem that needs to be solved. Shes the kind of authority figure who sets Ricky up for failure, listing his problems instead of his qualities. And shes immediately tonally offset by Rickys new mother, Bella  Rima Te Wiata, the kind of woman who wears sweaters with cat faces on them and hugs with her whole body. But Bella is no softie. She wins Ricky over by being honest, saying things like Have some breakfast  then you can run away. Theres a telling but brief exchange Waititi never hammers or underlines his themes in which Bella and Ricky see some wild horses and the young man asks if he can ride them. She responds, Why do they need to be ridden anyway? Why cant they just eat grass and be happy? Shes essentially telling Ricky shell give him the same freedom. Of course, nothing that great lasts and Ricky ends up on the run for reasons I wont spoil. Deep in the forest, Ricky plans a life living off the land with his dog Tupac. Hes tracked and found by Bellas husband Hec  Sam Neill, who gets injured, delaying their return to civilization long enough that the authorities come looking. Hec and Ricky are a traditional oil-and-water movie duo, physically and emotionally off-set. Ricky writes haikus. Hec hunts. And the two become famous, all over national news and tracked by the incompetent Paula. Hunt for the Wilderpeople becomes a road movie with no road, a film about two people who may seem entirely different but have both been discarded by society.  Waititis film never judges its characters. Ricky isnt a bad egg or a dumb kid. The film finds joy in scenes like the one in which he creates a fake Walkman and dances to the music in his head. Its essential to the films success that Rickys not just the bumbling idiot he could have been in another filmmakers hands. We feel honest affection for Ricky. And the same holds true for Hec, whom Waititi and Neill could have turned into a grizzled jerk. Dennison, Waititi and Neill find depth within the characters, as small moments become the foundation for the films emotion. They dont play the coming-of-age arc, they play the reality of each scene. It may sound obvious, but so many films like Hunt for the Wilderpeople try to play the emotion instead of grounding it in character.   It helps to have a compassionate and humane filmmaker in the directors chair. The man behind  Boy and  What We Do in the Shadows not only knows how hit a comedy beat with perfect timing, but he knows the rhythm a piece like this needs to work. With a fantastic editing team theres a sequence set to Nina Simone's Sinnerman, of all things, that is perfectly conceived and executed, he breaks Hunt for the Wilderpeople up into chapters, making it feel almost like a memory or the story that an adult Ricky is telling his kids later in life. It almost approaches fairy tale mythology, especially the surprisingly action-packed finale, one in which we honestly care about the fate of our two protagonists. So much of Hunt for the Wilderpeople looks easy. Its not until one considers the number of places it could have gone awry that one truly appreciates it. There are so many minor beats that produce laughs and major moments that create surprising emotion. Theres a great scene halfway through in which Hec and Ricky are high enough in the mountains that they can almost touch the sky and Hec calls it majestical. Its not a real word, but we know what it means. Its the meaning that matters in Hunt for the Wilderpeople. It's a downright majestical movie. 