I'm not entirely convinced that the makers of pseudo-psychological thriller "I Am Not a Serial Killer" know the difference between a cold sociopath and a garden-variety adolescent. In the film,quintessentialteenager John Wayne Cleaver  Max Records of " Where the Wild Things Are",aclinically diagnosed sociopath, tries to stop neighbor Bill  Christopher Lloyd from slaying people and stealing their organs. John, like Will Graham in TV's" Hannibal" and Dexter Morgan in "Dexter," is presented as the only person sensitive enough to catch a killer since he already thinks like a killer. Or at least, John thinks he behaves like a budding killer, and therefore obsesses over the notion that his lack of empathy means that he will somedaybecome a ruthless murderer. But at no point is it clear that writerdirector  Billy O'Brien "Isolation" and co-writer  Christopher Hyde know how real teenagers behave, let alone real crazy people. Johnhas a weird upbringing, having been raised in a funeral home by his mom  Laura Fraser. But all of the tellingsigns of John's sociopathologysuggest that he's just acommonplace high-schooler. He blows off ostentatiously flirty classmateBrooke  Lucy Lawton because he either can't see or doesn't care that she's into him. And he eventually confesses to his best friend Max RaymondBranstrom that he only hangs out with Max because it makes him feel normal. John also constantly writes about and independently researches the likes of Jeffrey Dahmer and the BTK Killer.Theonly realsign that John is abnormal, however, is that when hegoes to therapy,hetells hissympathetic but apparently ineffective shrink Dr. Neblin  Karl Geary that he fears he will eventually hurt somebody. Then again, if this kidwere a stoner, nobody would think he's that weird. Now, to be fair: you could argue that the filmmakers are trying to establish that John's abnormality is insubstantial, andthat his mother and therapist and school principal and classmates are only responding to John's discomfort in his own skin. But whileJohn's inability to control himself is supposed to be indicative of a psychological grey area, it's really just a plot device for a tacky detective story. O'Brien and Hyde, adapting one of a series of novels written by  Dan Wells, don't work too hard to getinside John's head. They just want touse John's love of true crime psychological profiling, fear of instability and proximity to embalming fluid to further their story. John's story is otherwise just like otherunimaginative pulp narratives about a brooding antiherowhostalksother bad guys. There are severalgivens you have to buy in order to acceptthe events of "I Am Not a Serial Killer." First, you have tobelieve that John's drive to stop Bill is motivated by a generic compulsion to deny his true nature. You also have to accept the notion that Bill's actions are disturbing to John because nobody else seems to care or be perceptive enough to notice them.How else can you explain the fact that the cops are ineffective against Bill and that John's mom doesn't seem to care that John isdisturbed by working with her? Finally, you have to think Bill, a doddering senior citizen who also happens to havesupernatural powers, could dispatch several unsuspecting victims.   None of these centralconceits seems plausiblesince O'Brien and Hyde never convincingly ratchet up the tension of John's search for answers. He discovers that Bill is really a killer, and then watches helplessly as Bill proceeds to dispatch several neighbors. There's no tension to cat-and-mousescenes of John attempting to stop Bill, because John doesn't try very hard. His home life is barely affected by his stalk-yhabits, partly because nobody seems to know or care about John's whereabouts. One minute he's sulking about a Christmas present, then he's out the door. Nobody follows him. Likewise, Brooke's stymied romance subplot goes nowhere' she seems only toexist in order to prove that John is gasp insensitive. So again, I have to ask: what is the real difference between a teen and a psycho? If you were to watch "I Am Not a Serial Killer" without any other cultural touchstones in mind, you might wonder why a personality disorder is conflated with normal growing pains. You might also wonder why a semi-realistic horror film doesn'ttry to explain why some characters vanish at a whim while others stick around long enough to have their lives threatened. The arbitrary value of life in "I Am Not a Serial Killer" makes its nature as an ostensiblycharacter-driven mystery that much harder to swallow.Don't bother with this nonsensical time-waster. 