Leah Meyerhoff is a major new talent. Her I Believe in Unicorns is an accomplished coming-of-age tale that both calls back to the dozens of stories like it that weve seen and charts its own course. If it falls victim to a bit too many college film student clichs, its easy to forgive Meyerhoff due to the great performance she draws from her talented young star and what this film means for her bright future. Davina Natalie Dyer is a beautiful young girl who trains her striking blue eyes on an older kid named Sterling  Peter Vack and begins her first rocky relationship. Having taken care of her disabled mother played by the writerdirectors real mother and seeing little signs of life in her, she sees a vision of young love as an exit ramp to a better, more exciting place. Davina is at that unique time of life in which childhood and impending adulthood crash and blend. Davina is still into drawings, unicorns, Polaroids defiantly girly stuff. When her new beau asks her to meet him, she puts on a lovely dress. He rides a skateboard and has a studded leather jacket. They are practically  Sandra Dee and Danny Zuko. And Meyerhoff embraces her clichs and cinematic predecessors, especially when composer  Sasha Gordons excellent work quite literally cribs from  Badlands.  Davina and Sterling are people dying to get on with life. Bring on adulthood because adolescence with its sick mothers and abusive fathers has been awful. And so they race, head first, into the unknown world, turning a large portion of I Believe in Unicorns into a road movie. Meyerhoff expertly recognizes that just because Davina and Sterling want to be grown-ups doesnt mean that they are yet. Having sex doesnt make you an instant adult. And so they play games in convenience stores and get into childish fights, which quickly become less childish as they realize theres no greener grass on the other side of the fence. Not knowing where youre going in this world can quickly go from liberating to boring, especially when youre on the journey with someone you dont really know. Meyerhoff isnt the only name to remember from I Believe in Unicorns, as the film simply wouldnt work at all without the committed, fantastic performance of Natalie Dyer. She balances the innocence and desire of her character in perfectly equal measures, sketching a person in that dangerous part of life in which they are not a child and yet also not quite yet a woman. She holds every scene, adding emotional weight to clichs that would have been paper-thin without her work. I Believe in Unicorns sometimes gets a bit too Film School Project and doesnt quite fill out a feature film its not even  minutes with long credits on both sides but it works on its own terms. Most of all, it is an introduction to two people I hope to see in the next festival line-up I receive: Leah Meyerhoff and Natalie Dyer. 