Its always a pleasure to see  Blythe Danner in a movie. And its even more of a pleasure to see Blythe Danner in a good movie. No, not a good movie. Areallygood movie. Which Ill See You In My Dreams actually is, its iffy but explainable title notwithstanding. The actress claims shes always been more at home on the stage than in films, despite the fact that her combined TV and motion picture credits total over . Still, this terrific, attractive actress hasnt had too many leading-lady star turns in her filmography, and her most recent screen work has involved being a stolid second or third banana to the likes of  Robert De Niro and  Ben Stiller in the increasingly dire comedies spawned by s  Meet The Parents. The descriptives surrounding Ill See You In My Dreams might read like trigger warnings to a dyspeptic movie maven. Sundance hit, indie drama, senior romance. I admit I myself went in with a slight amount of trepidation. But it was clear from the opening, in which Danners character, Carol has to put her beloved dog to sleep, that the -year-old Danner, was going to carry the movie, and that wascomforting. The long-widowed Carol has a pretty well-ordered life. She gets up early in the morning, does the housekeeping she needs to do, has a regular bridge game with some old friends who live at a nearby senior community, and so on. But shes a bit disconnected from her friends, because shes opted to live in a house of her own, and after the dog is gone, her lifes a little more lonely. Disorder enters in the form of a black rat in the house' Carol asks the new pool-cleaning guy, Lloyd  Martin Starr, to investigate. A weird, tentative friendship starts blooming between the aimless, bearded, much younger Lloyd and Carol. He takes her out to a karaoke bar where her long-lost identity as a singer reasserts itself in an impressive way, as CarolBlythe really lays into Cry Me A River. The pair looks askance at each other when the idea of a romance rears its head theres an age difference of like four decades here! but then you think you see them thinking, Well, why not? Before that question gets past the implied stage, Carol, after a disastrous senior-speed-dating session, accepts a date request from Bill, whos played by  Sam Elliott. Being played by Sam Elliott in itself implies a lot, and his Bill is a laid-back delight, taking Carol out on his boat, which hes christened So What, after the  Miles Davis tune. When Carol picks up the reference, Bill is duly impressed, and its, um, smooth sailing for their romance. Until its not. Co-written and directed by  Brett Haley, Ill See You In My Dreams is notable for its tempered sweetness and never on-the-nose wisdom. It makes genuine cinematic hay of scenarios that  out of one hundred other filmmakers would play for cheap look-at-the-old-people laughs. The aforementioned speed-dating sequence, for instance, is cut together with the conventional multiple-talking-heads interspersing, but its more purposeful and compassionate than any other scenes using that strategy Ive ever seen. Similarly, a scene in which Carol, having decided to live a little, asks one of her girlfriends where she keeps her stash of medical marijuana, the ensuing scenes, featuring contemporary golden girls  Rhea Perlman,  Mary Kay Place, and  June Squibb, are genuinely funny and touching, not to mention behaviorally accurate. One shudders to think how such material would play out in the hands of, say,  Luke Greenfield or  Greg Berlanti, but one doesnt have to think of such things, as the material is so beautifully handled here. Carols new lease on life leads to her being nearly blindsided by a visit from her daughter Katherine  Malin Akerman. Their pleasant but wary interplay suggests hidden depths in their relationship, but here-and-now events detour their conversation, and then bring things to a new level. Unlike a lot of film-festival-friendly indies that emphasize character studies, Ill See You In My Dreams has a very definite and sturdy narrative, and its a well-handled one that deserves to be discovered by viewers. While I was indeed moved by the films gentle conclusions with respect to life and aging, I was on the whole more impressed by how genuinely amiable the movie is: its an hour and a half spent with fictionalized people who are a real pleasure to be with. That is no small thing.   