When  John Steinbecks In Dubious Battle was published in , theNew York Times wrote that You would never know that In Dubious Battle was by the same John Steinbeck if the publishers did not tell you so. After directing such formally and narratively challenging films as his adaptation of  Cormac McCarthys  Child of God and  William Faulkners As I Lay Dying,  James Francos work in adapting the Steinbeck novel could provoke a nearly identical response. Given how much he typically pushes back against traditional storytelling in his directorial efforts to date, you would never know that In Dubious Battle was the same James Franco if the producers did not tell you so. Remarkably star-studded and even more remarkably earnest, there are elements of In Dubious Battle that work but enough missteps to keep it from fully coming together the way one wishes it would. However, it's such an unexpected film from Franco the Director that it could easily get one more excited about his upcoming projects, including the highly anticipated The Masterpiece. And it undeniably plays differently in the wake of worker strikes today for "A Day Without Immigrants" and greater divides between the working class and the President of the United States than when the film premiered at Toronto last year which is not meant as a political statement, just a fact, and not an alternative one. In Dubious Battle is the story of the working class during the Depression, striking against an increasingly cruel establishment in ways that would lead to the formation of workers rights, including a minimum wage. It is an ensemble piece fronted by  Nat Wolffs Jim and James Francos Mac, two men who essentially form a union of workers after their wages are cut from  an hour to  an hour at the height of the depression. Jim is the younger, more nave man, learning the ways to inspire his people from the more-experienced Mac. In Dubious Battle is about the cost of fighting for equality. It is easy to roll over and accept what one is given. It is much harder to fight for what one is owed.   Franco fills his ensemble with recognizable faces, many of whom give great one-or-two-scene performances. Most notably, Vincent DOnofrio shines as London, a reticent leader to his people, and a negotiation scene between him and  Robert Duvall as Bolton, the voice of the establishment, is the highlight of the film. As a director, Franco knows to get out of the way and let his veterans do that which they do best. So, DOnofrio, Duvall,  Sam Shepard, and  Ed Harris give magnetic, lived-in performances. For the record, Franco himself is very good here as well.   The problems come in the younger cast, which Franco doesnt quite seem willing to direct to a degree that their characters come off as believable. Wolffs non-performance is a hole at the center of the film, amplified whenever hes alone with  Selena Gomezs miscast Lisa. Theres a notable divide here between the accomplished veterans and the younger players. The former look like they have dirt under their nails and life stories to tell. The latter look like theyre playing dress up.   Most of all, In Dubious Battle falters due to the pacing of its earnestness. Its a film in which characters often say exactly what theyre thinking and feeling and needing at any given moment. And when a film starts with that degree of existence as a message delivery system instead of presenting characters it has nowhere to go but melodrama. If the passionate speeches of the final act werent preceded by  minutes of basically the same sentiments theyd have more power. In Dubious Battle is monotonous in its messaging, working only when it allows itself to be a character piece less tied to Having Something to Say.    I never thought that James Franco would make a film that felt comparable to a  John Sayles ensemble piece, but thats what In Dubious Battle ultimately feels like. The difference is that Sayles is one of our best craftsmen when it comes to setting, making his location as important as his characters, and giving us worlds that feel lived-in instead of merely visited by a cast and crew. Still, the unexpected effort is appreciated. Some have claimed that In Dubious Battle was Steinbecks first major book it would be followed by Of Mice and Menthe next year and then The Grapes of Wraththree years later. Perhaps well look back on the film version as James Francos first major directorial credit.  