Sorry, my love. I bit you. These arethefinal wordsin Philippe Garrels romantic drama IntheShadowofWomen, which a philandering filmmaker speaks to his estranged wife during a sudden, emotional embrace. He means them literally he gives her cheek an accidental nibbleinthemidstoftheclutch but they could apply figuratively, as well. And she could have said them to him instead and they would have been just as fitting, giventhedamage both husband and wife have afflicted on each other. Nothing is simple emotionallyinthelatest fromtheFrench New Wave veteran, although he tells his story briefly and with striking directnessingorgeous, high-contrast black and white. Garrel may not be saying anything new aboutthe capricious whimsoftheheart, but he does so with a purityofnarrative and tone, and with thoroughly convincing performances from his stars. When we first meet Pierre  Stanislas Merhar and Manon  Clotilde Courau, they seem to have achieved a satisfying life together which mixes work and love. Hes a documentarian working on a film abouttheFrench resistance during World War II' she works part-time to havetheflexibility to help him with his projects. They liveina shabby Paris apartment they can barely afford thelandlord stormsindemanding overdue rent atthefilms start but otherwise, they appear genuinely content. Garrel observes their daily rhythmsinmatter-of-fact fashion, hopping from one sliceoflife tothenext without fanfare and often without dialogue. And so it seems rather outoftheblue when Pierre launches into an affair withtheyounger Elisabeth  Lena Paugam, an intern atthearchives where hes been doing research. Theres nothing particularly special about her shes plainly pretty and they share no obvious chemistry. And yet it takes him no time to go home with her and climb into her bed. Maybe thatsthepoint, though' its not that Pierre is necessarily looking for someone better and as Garrels son, Louis, points outinhis narration,thefling is merely physical for him. Pierres wife is beautiful, smart and effortlessly chic, whereas Elisabeth is merely different. Atthesame time, Manon begins her own affair with a man whos so insignificant, Garrel and his co-writers  Jean-Claude Carriere, Caroline Deruas and  Arlette Langmann dont even give him a name. She doesnt even know that Pierre is being unfaithful to her, totheextent that she remarks jokingly: Flowers say awomanis being cheated on, when he comes home from a tryst carrying a bouquet. Bur eventually, their dalliances take their toll and breed mutual suspicion. Something is just offintheir dynamic they both sense it and Garrel increasesthetension by cornering them within their tiny apartment and their insular neighborhood. While Merhar mostly remains evasive and indignant as Pierres indiscretions come to light, Courau shows a beautiful rangeofemotions as their marriage collapses. Her ability to shift seamlessly from anger to silence to sadness and back to anger again oftenina single take is breathtaking to behold, and it always feels true. Paugam brings her own authentic elementofanxiety totheequation astheincreasingly needy, clingy mistress who stalks Pierre on his street and seeks a commitment hell never make. Garrel judges noneofthese people for their bad choices, but rather acknowledges that these things happen all time. Its a sentiment as timeless asthelookofthepicture, a French New Wave throwback shot on mm film which could take place decades ago orinthecurrent day. Cest la vie.   