The aliens are back, and they want  more of the same thing they wanted before, maybe? Not that it matters, really. Independence Day: Resurgence, the sequel you probably didnt want or need to the  smash-hit blockbuster  Independence Day, is all about the spectacle. And yes, all massive summer disaster pictures are like that especially when they come from director  Roland Emmerich, returning from the original Independence Day. Shock and awe are his bread and butter. But Resurgence which, surprisingly, isnt the title of a fourth  Divergent movie feels even more shiny and empty than most of these kinds of films. Its not completely terrible, even though  th Century Foxs decision not to screen it for critics before opening day would suggest as much. Its just dull and hollow a massive waste of time and money. The characters are flimsy, the dialogue is stilted and the amount of destruction is ridiculous, even if thats all pretty typical for the brand of blockbusters inspired by Emmerich's  hit. You go see a movie like Independence Day for the visceral thrills, but here, theyre in woefully short supply. Because so many movies have come along in the past two decades featuring this kind of high-tech annihilation, Resurgence feels like a glossy copy of the sort of blockbuster weve watched countless times before. Entire cities get sucked up into the sky and dropped back down again. Fighter jets engage in dizzying dogfights with speedy alien aircraft. Major global landmarks get blowed up real good. There is exactly one scene toward the end, featuring a big reveal of the real enemy, that offers the sort of excitement and stakes youre hoping to see. But man, is it a slog to get there. Will Smith wisely opted out of the sequel, although the original Independence Day is the movie that made him a superstar. Several actors do return, however, to establish some vague sense of continuity. They include  Bill Pullman as the former President of the United States,  Jeff Goldblum as the voice-of-reason alien defense expert and  Judd Hirsch as Goldblums father, who ostensibly exists to provide comic relief but merely functions once again as a lame stereotype of an elderly Jewish man from Brooklyn. The screenplay, which bafflingly took five people to write, allows him to say the words "schmuck" AND "putz." Added to the mix this time is a multicultural array of young actors who do little more than run, look pretty and exchange green laser fire with aliens.  Liam Hemsworth, who apparently was told that hes starring in a  Top Gun remake,playsJake, a hotshot fighter pilot who swaggers, preens and exchanges wisecracking banter with his partnerGoose figure, Charlie  Travis Tope. Hes engaged to Patricia  Maika Monroe, whos the daughter of Pullmans former President Whitmore and a speechwriter for the current president  Sela Ward. And Jakes best-friend-turned-enemy just happens to be Dylan Jessie T. Usher, the son of Smiths heroic character. Handsome as he is, Usher doesnt have a smidgen of the screen presence Smith did' then again, who does? Even Hemsworth doesnt get much of a chance to show any real charisma here.   Theres also  William Fichtner who, surprisingly, doesnt turn out to be a secret villain for once as the commanding general' modelactress Angelababy, who basically exists to serve as eye candy and appeal to coveted Chinese moviegoers' and, in the strangest bit of casting of all,  Charlotte Gainsbourg as a psychiatrist studying people whove come into contact with aliens. And what are the odds? the aliens have come back, exactly  years later in a flair for the dramatic, to make contact again. Only this time, theyre in a spaceship thats , miles wide. How the hell did we miss this?, Goldblums David Levinson wonders aloud. They use it to latch onto Earth in order to drill into its core and steal our resources. Or something. Only a giant, talking orb smooth, shiny, white and full of crucial intergalactic information, like the latest must-have device to roll off the Apple assembly line can stop the obliteration of humanity. You could look at it as a satirical metaphor for the growing sense of xenophobia and isolation that plagues places throughout the globe: These invaders are coming here illegally to take from us and wreak havoc. We have to keep them out. We have to make Earth great again. But that would require thinking. Emmerich crosscuts between all these various characters and storylines with little sense of pacing or coherence. Just as something important is happening, hell jump over to something else, mixing suspense, seriousness and silliness in a way thats jarring. Whereas the attempts at humor in the midst of great peril often worked in the original Independence Day because it was a movie that was self-aware without teetering into parody here, theyre consistently clunky. And because so much of the action takes place in various bunkers full of enormous monitors and anxious, uniformed people barking orders, its hard to tell whos where. Washington D.C.? Area ? The moon? They all look exactly the same. They will all look exactly the same again at least to the aliens when the inevitable third Independence Day movie comes out, as its suggested in the films final moments. This time, youve been warned. 