Intruders, once called Shut In on the fest circuit, is an effective home invasion thriller with interesting performances and tight pacing  until its not. Like so many genre films, Intruders cant quite figure out its final act, and this one devolves from a thrilling predator-and-prey game into something closer to  Saw. Director  Adam Schindler is better with actors than a lot of young horror directors resulting in the tightness of that first half but cant quite get a handle on where the movie needs to go from there. The result is a promising film that leaves a bad taste in your mouth, like a meal well-presented on the plate that just doesnt fill you up. Anna  Beth Riesgraf is an agoraphobic young woman who hasnt left the family house in a decade. Her brother Conrad  Timothy T. McKinney is her only companion, but hes dying in the films opening scenes. A nice Meals on Wheels guy  Rory Culkin is one of Annas few connections to the outside world. These opening scenes define Annas world well, and Riesgraf is very good in them, conveying someone whos actually more scared of going out her front door than anything that might come through it. After her brothers passing, Riesgraf deftly conveys Annas crippling fear, agoraphobia so bad that it keeps her from even going to the funeral. And thats when the problems start. Three guys  Jack Kesy, Joshua Mikel and  Martin Starr who presumed that Anna would be out of the house break into it to rob the place. Anna is still home, dressed up for the funeral but unable to will herself to go. At first, it looks like Intruders may play out like  Panic Room, as the home invaders realize that someone has altered their plans. However, its not long before the tables are turned, leaving the men in a basement thats, well, not your average lower floor. It turns out that Anna has a dark family history and the men who thought they could steal her family fortune are about to confront it. While the three criminals who bust through Annas front door are relatively and predictably defined one killer, one peaceful guy, one leader the cast and setting sell the action. We believe Anna is so crippled by fear that her captors dont even think they have to tie her up to stop her from escaping. The filmmaking in this first act is lean and tight, ably propelled by Riesgraf and the always-great Starr, playing against type here as the maniac who wants to plunge a hammer into Annas head. I could do without the shaky camerawork to capture Annas fear the actress is good enough that the trick is unnecessary, but I was down with Intruders until a major incident at the -minute mark completely changes the stakes and dynamic.   Even then, Intruders doesnt completely fall apart. It just gets repetitive and even ugly. Theres a lot of use of the word bitch and close-ups of violence. As the piece becomes more Saw than Panic Room, the characters disappear and were left with too little to hold on to. Schindler cant handle the gore effectively, as scenes like the one in which blood pours onto Annas face just feel gross. It doesnt need to be that ugly of a film. Dont get me wrong. I dont mind gore at all. It just has to feel purposeful, and it doesnt here. And then the final  minutes are of the that only happens in a horror movie variety, revealing that the psychological elements of the piece have always been mere window-dressing. People are not so easily defined as weve been led to believe. Just because Anna is a shut-in doesnt mean shes weak. And just because her home invaders are hammer-wielding tough guys doesnt mean she cant turn the tables on them. Thats the aspect of Intruders that works, and the foundation on which the rest of the film should have been built instead of inconsistent characters and shock value. You could do a lot worse for a horror VOD rental this weekend or even a trip to the theater if its near you given the abysmal January competition, but you still wont shake the feeling that Intruders should have been a lot better. 