Intrepido: A Lonely Hero is a strange little film, and its likely to be considered so both by viewers who know and those who dont know the work of  Gianni Amelio. For those unfamiliar with the Italian auteurs career, it might seem odd that an American distributor would import this lumpy, unaffecting tale of a Milanese Everyman who substitutes for other workers in an endless series of menial jobs. For viewers aware of Amelio masterworks such as Open Doors, Stolen Children and Lamerica, on the other hand, the puzzlement will lie in wondering how the creator of those magisterial films would end up turning out this curious trifle. In the films opening minutes, we see Antonio Pane Antonio Albanese wearing a hard hat while working on a Milan high-rise construction site, where theres talk of immigrant labor and the ineffectualness of unions. Thats the morning. By afternoon, Antonio is wearing a lion costume and trying to entertain spoiled kids at a shopping mall. Come evening, hes pasting posters on billboards and being threatened by thuggish competitors. Multiple jobs in one day? What gives? We soon learn: Antonio is a fill-in. He fills in for workers who for any reason cant perform their jobs. As we see him move from one task to another, in whats obviously a thankless routine, it gradually emerges that he has only two significant relationships, and theres a degree of trouble on both fronts. The person closest to him is his son Ivo  Gabriele Rendina, a jazz saxophonist. Ivo regularly visits Antonio and takes care of him in ways that make it almost seem that the boy is the parental figure and dad the needy dependent. But Ivos life isnt otherwise placid. Though talented, he has a case of stage nerves and a reputation for unreliability that threaten his promising career. Antonios other intimate, Lucia  Livia Rossi, is a young woman he meets while theyre both taking a standardized test for what were never told. She looks completely at sea, so he passes her the answers, and a brittle friendship is born. But shes hardly a cheerful or romantic companion. Beclouded by various worries, she seems on a downward psychological spiral that Antonio will be hard-pressed to reverse. As this loose-knit tale unfolds, its most curious aspect is how disconnected its episodes feel, a quality that grows even more pronounced in its second half. Its as if Amelio had a hatful of note cards with ideas for scenes, threw them in the air, and stuck them in the final script in whatever order they hit the floor. Some seem entirely arbitrary. One example: Antonio is assigned by a shady gym boss to look after a boy who appears about  years old. He takes the kid to a park and tries to amuse him with jokes and chat, but the boy wont talk. Eventually a man appears and the boy goes off with him. Whats happened here? Has Antonio played an unsuspecting role as a pedophiles procurer? The scene vaguely evokes the concern for child abuse in other Amelio films, but here its never explained' it connects with nothing around it.   In the films that earned him an international reputation, Amelio seemed like an inheritor of the Italian neorealists, a powerful and confident stylist who nonetheless turned away from the aestheticism of directors such as Antonioni and Bertolucci to focus on social problems, often from an angle that might be called conservative-humanist. But Intrepido hardly seems like an attempt to seriously probe contemporary labor discontents' its too whimsical and aleatory. So what was Amelios plug-in point for this desultory fable? Its been reported that he wanted to work with Albanese, a popular comic actor, and Intrepido does make a certain amount of sense as a way for the director to showcase a favorite performer. The storys random trajectory plays like a series of skits for the actor, more than a conventionally focused story. Also, theres an obvious attempt to evoke the Chaplin of  Modern Times one sequence even ends with an iris-in. Yet it cant be said that any of this adds up to slapstick merriment, much less clever satire. Amelios outlook is naturally grave' comedy is not in his genes' and if hed wanted to work with an actor who could provide actual hilarity, hed have been better off with an antic clown like  Roberto Benigni. What comes across as genuine in the film, and might also help explain its origins, is its air of melancholy and loneliness. The films Milan is not just a vision of wintry industrial anomie' it also feels like a place where people inhabit the same space but never touch each other. A space thats more the inside of one mans head than an actual city, in other words. Intrepido, the title Amelio gave the film, refers to a publication from his childhood. A Lonely Hero, supplied by the films importers, is a rather clunky addition, but it does evoke the interior feel of the film. Colpire al Cuore, Amelios brilliant debut film of , provided a scathing critique of bourgeois leftist radicals, yet it was also a depiction of a very solitary and alienated young man, and the suggestion of self-portraiture was inescapable. Intrepido may be a similar look in the mirror, yet here the face the artist sees is old, not young, and his world not so susceptible to cathartic change.   