Clowns are creepy no matter what. We can all agree on that, right?   But Pennywise, the dancing clown who tracks down and torments the children of small-town Maine in It, is deeply unsettling. At least, he is in the latest incarnation of  Stephen Kings iconic novel. Infamously,  Tim Currys take on the character in the  TV miniseries version was so over-the-top, it was laughable not that youre looking for understatement in your homicidal clowns.  But what  Bill Skarsgard does with the role works well precisely because he doesnt appear to be laboring so hard to frighten us. He doesnt vamp it up. Hes coy he toys with these kids making his sudden bursts of insane clown hostility that much more shocking.   Even more effective than the horror elements of Argentine director  Andy Muschiettis adaptation is the unexpected humor he reveals in the story and, ultimately, the humanity. Finding that combination of tones is such a tricky balance to pull off: the brief lightening of a tense moment with a quick quip, or an earnest monologue in the face of extreme danger. But It makes that work nearly every time, thanks to its perfectly calibrated performances from a well-chosen cast.  The kid-bonding parts of the movie are actually stronger than the creepy-clown parts, even though images of that freakish, frilly fiend will be the ones that keep you awake at night. Led by  Midnight Special star  Jaeden Lieberher whose everyman everykid? appeal grows with each film and including a star-making performance from  Sophia Lillis as the crews lone female member, its mostly unknown actors who comprise the films so-called Losers Club. But their characters are distinctly drawn, each with a fleshed-out backstory that explains why their fears make them so vulnerable to Pennywises attacks.  Unlike Kings novel and the  original It, the screenplay from  Chase Palmer,  Cary Fukunaga the acclaimed writer-director of  Sin Nombre and  Beasts of No Nation and  Gary Dauberman doesnt jump back and forth in time. It moves the time frame to - and sticks with our core group of seven kids while theyre still adolescent misfits, which grounds their story and makes it more immersive. It also surely will draw comparisons to the Netflix series Stranger Things, another supernatural mystery set in small-town America in the s. The nostalgia factor is strong for those of us who grew up then, too.  Muschiettis version begins as the book does, though, with innocent, six-year-old Georgie Denbrough  Jackson Robert Scott chasing his toy boat as it sails down a gutter and into a storm drain on a rainy afternoon in fictional Derry, Maine. Hes especially fond of the boat because it was a gift from his beloved older brother, Lieberhers Bill, a smart, skinny kid who struggles with a stutter. Thats why his choice to chat with Pennywise who just happens to pop up in the sewer with the boat and a smile leads to his tragic demise. Muschiettis cutaways to a cat who witnesses everything from a nearby porch are chilling' he showed that same delicate mastery of mood with his underappreciated  horror film  Mama, starring  Jessica Chastain.     But Bill insists Georgie has just gone missing, as such an unusually large number of Derry children have over the years. He enlists his posse of similarly bullied, outcast pals to help him get to the bottom of this lingering mystery: wisecracking trash-talker Richie  Finn Wolfhard, who also happens to be in Stranger Things' wimpy mamas boy Eddie  Jack Dylan Grazer' nervous rabbis son Stanley  Wyatt Oleff' heavyset new kid Ben  Jeremy Ray Taylor' and the tough-but-kind Beverly Lillis. Eventually, the home-schooled farmhand Mike  Chosen Jacobs, whos suffered racial attacks as the only black kid in town, makes them a team of seven.  Despite the many terrifying moments they endure in their quest scenes that will leave you trembling and giggling at once It is even more powerful in the warm, easy camaraderie between its young stars. Certainly you could view it as a straight-up horror flick, but the underlying allegory of these characters facing their deepest fears as they enter adulthood gives the movie more emotional heft a bit of bittersweet within the suffering.  These kids have all languished on the fringes hence the Losers Club tag they wear as a badge of honor whether its because of an overbearing mother, an abusive father or a devastating family loss. But theyre also all on the cusp of something. Pennywise knows what frightens them in this precarious state of flux and tries to use that devious, supernatural ability to lead kids to their doom. Confronting those fears rather than running away is what just might save them.  Tonally, It feels like a throwback to great King adaptations of yore particularly Stand By Me, with its ragtag band of kids on a morbid adventure, affecting bravado and affectionately hassling each other to mask their true jitters. Wolfhard in particular has great comic timing as the profane Richie. Technically, Muschietti shows some glimmers of early Spielberg, too the low camera angles, the images of kids on bikes pedaling furiously in a pack, the overall mix of wonder and danger.  It could have used a bit of tightening as it builds toward its climax, though. While the imagery is undeniably harrowing and even poignant in the action-packed third act, some of it feels dragged out and redundant. And because the final confrontation takes place within a dark, underground lair, its sometimes difficult to tell exactly whats going on, despite the impressive visual effects on display as Pennywise unleashes his full powers on his young attackers. Thats one of many ways in which the new It is a vast improvement over its low-tech predecessor.  Not to burst your balloon, though, but the closing credits suggest this may not be the last weve seen of Pennywise after all.    