Jackals put me in a foul mood. Maybe thats the intention of this lean, mean slab of B-horror trash: to set you on edge and keep you there long after its over. If so, director  Kevin Greutert the sixth and seventh  Saw movies certainly achieves his goals efficiently, and admittedly he features some artfully startling imagery. But the films ultimate nihilism makes the whole exercise seem like an annoyingly pointless waste of time even for a movie thats barely  minutes long. Working from a screenplay by  Jared Rivet, Greutert gets down to business quickly, revealing a husband and wife and their daughter being slaughtered with scissors in their beds in the middle of the night. The silent assailant catches a glimpse of himself in a full-length mirror after the bloodshed is done: Hes wearing an animal mask. The meat of the story though which were told is based on true events from March  concerns a different family, one thats trying to extricate its -something son from the same murderous cult that includes the killer from the films start. Theyve hired a swaggering ex-Marine named Jimmy a tatted and stubbly  Stephen Dorff to kidnap the young man while hes driving along a country road, throw him in a van and drag him back to their comfortable, secluded cabin in the California woods. There, Jimmy is to deprogram Justin  Ben Sullivan with the help of the mixed-up young mans family: father Andrew  Johnathon Schaech, mother Kathy  Deborah Kara Unger and younger brother Campbell  Nick Roux, as well as Justins ex-girlfriend Samantha  Chelsea Ricketts, whos also the mother of his infant daughter. Im going to ask you to do some of the hardest things youve ever done in your whole life, Jimmy says to prepare them for the ordeal ahead, as if theyre about to conduct an exorcism. And the crazed look in Justins eyes as he screams and writhes against the ropes that bind him to a chair suggests he is indeed possessed. Trouble is, Justin doesnt want to be deprogrammed. He likes his life in the cult. And the cult members like having him around, as evidenced by the speedy way they track him down and surround the cabin. The sight of them is eerie at first clad in all black with their various animal masks silhouetted against the headlights that pierce the misty, forest darkness. Every once in a while, one of them lets out a howl, and then the rest of them howl back in response. Theyre serious about this whole role-playing thing. But thats about all that defines the cult members in this Straw Dogs-style showdown. Theyre nameless, faceless, voiceless. Such ambiguity doesnt add to the sense of mystery, however. It actually makes them less intriguing and less fearsome as a villainous force. All they want is their man back, and theyre willing to cause massive amounts of bloody carnage to get him. Theyre kind of boring in their single-mindedness, to be honest. Meanwhile, Rivets script errs in the opposite direction when it comes to the folks inside the cabin: Theyre stuck with clunky expository dialogue. Justins family members stand around explaining themselves to each other and airing pent-up resentments while the threat continues to close in on them from all sides. They also take time to craft makeshift weapons out of kitchen utensils, though, which is clever.   But its clear pretty early on that whatever steps they take to protect themselves will be futile. Theyre massively outnumbered, and Jackals isnt exactly a feel-good, come-from-behind underdog story. Besides, Justin is so unrepentant and cruel that its a wonder the family doesnt just give him back. And Greutert, a longtime editor, can only hold the tension of the cult members threat for so long. Something has to give and when it does, its an explosion of bloody torture thats excruciating to watch. The brutality is punishing for us, as well and feels as if it will never end. If thats your thing, awesome. Maybe youll enjoy the savagery. But ultimately, the empty cruelty behind it is just too much to bear. 