The last scene of Jersey Boys is a curtain call of sorts. Set to The Four Seasons memorable ode to deflowering, December, , the scene explodes with bright, noisy colors and jubilant voices. It hops from character to character, visually name-checking the entire cast as they sing and dance. The camerawork, editing and lighting foster a genuine sense of excitement. In this finale, Jersey Boys feels like the Broadway musical upon which it is based, showcasing the energy and joy that continues to leap off the stage every night in venues from Las Vegas to London.  If only director Clint Eastwood had directed more scenes like this. He ensured his cast would be up to the task by importing several veterans from the stage. Three of the Four Seasons cast in Jersey Boys are from various incarnations of the show, including Tony-winner  John Lloyd Young, whose Frankie Valli is vocally spot-on and a force to behold.  Christopher Walken, no slouch to musicals, is also on hand, doing a bit of a soft-shoe in the aforementioned finale. Even Boardwalk Empire vet  Vincent Piazza, as group member Tommy DeVito, holds his own with the more musically seasoned members of The Four Seasons. The singing talent is there, but Eastwood and writers  Marshall Brickman  Annie Hall and Rick Elise opt for a more realistic depiction of events. They transform Jersey Boys from jukebox musical to movie biopic, exchanging one much-maligned genre for another. In the process, the focus is shifted' the drama is played up and the music seems shoehorned in where convenient.  This imbalance is forgivable in scenes where the band deals with talent scout Joe Pesci yes, that  Joe Pesci, here in the guise of actor Joey Russo or interact with one another. The problems arise in the mob-related material, which is seemingly endless. These plot elements are necessary to tell the full story, but the lazy way they are depicted stops the movie cold. We've already seen  GoodFellas,  Mean Streets and any number of mob-related tales, so Eastwoods take on them feels lifeless. As the catalyst for most of these scenes, Piazza wrings his derivative character for all that hes worth. But Walken, as mob boss Gyp DeCarlo, is given little to do besides commit scene-stealing grand larceny in a weepy moment opposite Youngs Valli. Jersey Boys keeps the shows conceit of having each of the Four Seasons tell various aspects of the story. Tommy, Frankie, Nick Massi  Michael Lomenda and Bob Gaudio  Erich Bergen break the fourth wall at various points to talk to us directly. Since Tommy is both the bands heart and its downfall, he figures into everyones narrative. Songwriter Gaudio becomes the bands primary songwriter because Tommy acted on a tip from Joe Pesci. Frankie sharpens and perfects his famous falsetto with Tommys help. And Nick rooms with Tommy for  years and sees the worst sides of him.    Whether theyre singing or fighting, Jersey Boys is at its best when it focuses on the band members chemistry. The actors know their characters voices well enough to effortlessly plow through as many Four Seasons songs as the original musical contains. They sound spectacular, and theres enough of each song to satiate fans and newbies alike. But Eastwood shoots so many of these numbers in a matter-of-fact, almost documentary style, static way that the two times he really cuts loose are the films best moments. The second time is the curtain call finale' the first is Youngs hauntingly emotional rendering of Cant Take My Eyes Off You. If you know the song, youll know what the big mid-number reveal is. Eastwood presents it with stunning gusto, and the reaction Valli gets at the end is as close to a stand-up-and-cheer moment as Jersey Boys gets.  Though no longer playing to the back of the house, Young, Bergen and Lomenda still have a tendency to go big in front of the camera. Its most noticeable opposite Piazzas Tommy, who despite his stereotype-ridden role gives the best performance in Jersey Boys. Yet the vocal talent trumps any minor performance issues incurred. The filmmakers made the right decisions for the leads. This movie will sell many soundtracks. The elephant in the room is Eastwood himself. He is the wrong director for this  material, and this opinion comes from someone who loved  Million Dollar Baby,  Space Cowboys and even those orangutan movies. He is the wrong choice, but  not for the reason you think. Eastwood is adept at handling music in films, from   Bird to his country music homage to Garbos Camille,  Honkytonk Man which  I also like without shame. But, for once, I have to agree with those who say  his style is too laid back. A movie as grungy, profane and blue-collar as Jersey Boys needs to feel more alive. When the musics  not playing, Jersey Boys starts to lull you into mild lethargy. I wonder  what fellow Jersey Boy  Brian De Palma could have done with this. 