I confess, I find thegory" Saw" movies'ridiculously severe approach todramaturgyto beendearingly preposterous. Imagine a dimwittedAgatha Christie-stylewhodunit where a killer has trapped a room-full of victims in a single location.Stop laughing, Christie's "Ten Little Indians" isspot-checked in several scenes of "Jigsaw," the latest film in the undyinghorror-mysteryseries:a handful of victims claimed by serial killer John "Jigsaw" Kramer franchise staple Tobin Bell are discovered with index cards on their bodies that read "And then there were Insert dwindling number of corpses here." Jigsawimagines that he has the moral high ground andis, with each heavily booby-trapped endurance "test," balancing the scales ofdivine justice by allowing criminals to either confess their sins, or suffer the consequences.Now throw in a lot of ineptly sensationalistic filmmaking, specificallytoo-dark camera filters, over-edited action sequences, and heavy-handed monologues about how people don't really appreciatelifeuntil they've almost died. Then include, ontop of that,a bunch of rug-pulling twists, andsevensequels' worth of backstory,relatedprimarily throughabrupt flashbacks, and unwieldy expository dialogue. And voila, you have a screw-up-proofrecipefor abunch ofabnormally dimwitted grand guignol-stylethrillers, all of which arebuilt on a narrative foundation of wobbly,retroactively plannedmythmaking. These movies areso overdone that you can't help but marvel at their creators' aggressive, andcluelessattempts atsimultaneouslyalienating youand drawingyou in.   Enter "Jigsaw," the seventh sequel, anda prime example of the "Saw" series' delightful over-seriousness. In"Jigsaw," you get two competing storylines: one is a locked room mystery set in an undisclosed barn, and the other is a police investigation of those farmyard slayings.Let's start with thestory set in a barn. This plotlineissuperficiallydifferent from the kind you'll find in a typical "Saw" move in one superficial butnotableway: it's not as sadistic.The earlier films had a more pronouncedfixation onthe breaking of bones,the helpless look onvictims' faces,and the squishy, fireworks-style explosions that attend the human body's complete evisceration.But"Jigsaw" features "tests" that are relatively humane, though ultimatelyno lessgruesome. "Jigsaw" stilltreats audiences to a grisly marathonwherein unwillingcompetitorsare told that theymust confess their crimes, orbe punished by the pitfalls built intomean-spirited, sub-"Fear Factor"-style obstacle courses.All you, the reader, need to know: a group of strangershavebeen kidnapped, and nowmust admit to committing crimesthat only Jigsaw knows about. Unfortunately,nobody wants toconfess their sins...not even at the point of dying.  All of theabove-mentioneddeath traps are eitherset into motionby haphazard physical movements, or hyped up to the point where their actualtame-ness is the real attraction. Think of what you expect versus what you enjoyabouta carnival's haunted house attraction. You enterhoping to be sincerely frightened, and leave laughing gratefully at all of theinexplicable,pseudo-macabre details.Thegoofy actors! The cheapcostumes! The distracting curtains!  Watching and enjoying "Jigsaw" isn't that different. Some traps are spectacularly lazy, like the one where victims are trapped in a grain silo, buried in you guessed it grain, and then slowly pelted with various yard tools and workbenchimplements, like a table-saw blade, some long nails, and evena pitchfork. Other traps can't be taken seriously because you can't figure out how they test contestants' morals or will to live, like when one meat puppet protagonist is fittinglylowered into ameat-grinder-style contraption, and has to fold his arms long enough to pull a handle. All of Jigsaw's trapsfeature confoundingpressure points Don't step there!, lazy solutions Don't shoot that!, and glaringly obviousriddle-style word-play Don't ignore that sentence's literal meaning!.  These death-trap killscenes are enjoyable if you like going to amovie theater, and yellingat the screen. Yes, theforgettable characters' sheerstupidity and unpleasantness will test you. And yes,thepile-onnature of their secret sins will make you laugh. And yes,the sheer absurdity of theprotagonists'sharedplightwill make you frequentlywant to tear your hair out. Any one of these elements might make watching "Jigsaw" a chore.  But all of these creativeobstructions in one film make might also make watching "Jigsaw"a viewing experience that's sosilly, and anxiety-inducing that you may alsohavea good time. Use the buddy system: go with somebody who also sincerelylikes cheesy movies, and try toanticipate the next obvious twist together. Laugh with your friends in the audience as you all cringe, and lament the filmmakers' blessed lack ofsubtlety. Just don't watch this movie at home months after its theatrical release. See "Jigsaw"with a crowd of strangers, preferably on opening weekend,so that you can enjoybeing confused,enraged, andbaffled together.     Oh, and I bet you thought I forgot about the detective sub-plot. Rest assured, it's a doozy. After a number of red herring solutions arefloated by viewers, the police stumble upon a twist that isnot only dumb unto itself, but is alsolargely plagiarized from an earlier "Saw"sequel,andhilariouslyjustified in a ten-minute info dump of expository dialogue at thefilm's end. You will hate "Jigsaw" if you approach it like a regularpuzzle, andgo in expectingits creatorstogive you enough pieces to completetheir already cornypuzzle without some amount ofcreative overcompensating. But, whileI can't exactly recommend seeing "Jigsaw,"I can tell you that it's fun to watch. I just don't think it'sthe kind of fun the filmmakers' planned. 