Just when John Wick thought he was out, they pull him back in. Its the tried-and-true formula of one last jobheistassignment. A longtime bad guy leaves the life of crime in pursuit of peace and quiet, but naturally gets dragged back to his old haunts and habits to settle a final score. But John Wick breathes exhilarating life into this tired premise, thanks to some dazzling action choreography, stylish visuals andmost importantlya vintage anti-hero performance from  Keanu Reeves. Toward the end of the film, a menacing Russian mobster remarks that the veteran hit man John Wick looks very much like the John Wick of old. Keanu Reeves looks very much like the Keanu Reeves of old, as well. Elegantly handsome and athletically lean, he looks fantastic at  and is comfortably, securely back in action-star mode. Not that hes been gone that longor deviated that much from his personabut this later-stage butt-kicking does call to mind  Liam Neesons recent resurgence in movies like  Taken,  The Grey and  Non-Stop.  After all these years, though, hes still quintessentially Keanu. He radiates a Zen-like calm which makes him simultaneously elusive and irresistible, especially in the face of great mayhem. Theres still a boyish quality to his face but it belies the wisdom of his years. Hes smarter than he looks but hes in no great hurry to go out of his way to prove it to youat least, not on screen. He just  is.  A character like John Wick is right in Reeves wheelhouse because it allows him to be coolly, almost mythically confident, yet deliver an amusing, deadpan one-liner with detached precision. This is when traces of the playful characters of his youthTed Theodore Logan and Johnny Utahtake a moment to surface. But when the time comesand it comes often in John Wickhe can deliver with a graceful yet powerful physicality. Soon after the death of his wife  Bridget Moynahanthe woman whose love inspired him to retire from his life as an expert assassinWick receives an unwelcome visit to his minimalist, modern mansion in the middle of the night. Russian bad guys have come to steal his prized  Mustangand they kill his dog in the process. The latter act is horrifying in itself' whats even worse is that the adorable beagle puppy, Daisy, was a posthumous gift to John from his dying wife, who knew hed need someone else to love. Moynahans character, by the way, is barely even a person. Shes an image on a smartphone video clipa body lying in a hospital bed, suffering from an unspecified disease. She's an idea. But her loss provides Wick with a melancholy that lingers over his demeanor and every decision he makes. Wick wastes no time unearthing his stashed arsenal and seeking revenge. It turns out that the groups reckless, young leader, Iosef  Alfie Allen, is the son of a former associate of Wicks: mob boss Viggo Tarasov a sophisticated but scary  Michael Nyqvist, who is fully aware of Wicks killing capacity. Also in the mix is  Willem Dafoe as an expert sniper who may or may not be on Wicks side. Once the premise is established in the script from  Derek Kolstad, its scene after scene of Wick taking out entire rooms full of people who are foolish enough to stand in his way. This is not exactly a complicated genre from a narrative perspective.   But directors  Chad Stahelski and  David Leitchwho work as a filmmaking team, although Leitch technically takes producing creditare both veteran stuntmen who clearly know what theyre doing when it comes to this kind of balletic action. Stahelski got his break  years ago when he served as a stunt double following  Brandon Lees deadly accident while shooting The Crow and went on to perform as Reeves stunt double in The Matrix trilogy. Leitchs work includes doubling for  Brad Pitt in  Fight Club and Mr. and Mrs. Smith and  Matt Damon in  The Bourne Ultimatum.  All those years of experience and exposure give their film a level of confidence you dont ordinarily see in first-time directors. Theyre smart enough to let the intricate choreography speak for itself. They let the fight scenes play out without relying on a lot of nauseating shaky-cam or Cuisinart edits, which sadly have become the aesthetic standard of late.  But beyond the exquisite brutality they put on display, theyve also got an eye for artistry, with cinematographer  Jonathan Sela helping convey an ominous sense of underworld suspense. Early scenes are so crisply desaturated, they look black and white, from the cloudy, rainy skies over Wicks wifes funeral to his head-to-toe wardrobe to his sleek, slate-gray Mustang. As Wick begins to re-immerse himself in the criminal world hed escaped, other scenes pop in their vibrancythe deep green of a secret, members-only cocktail bar, or the rich red of a Russian bad guys shirt under an impeccably tailored suit. While the body count grows numbing and repetitive, John Wick actually is more compelling in the aesthetically heightened, specifically detailed world it depicts. Its the New York City of the here and now, but Wick, his fellow assassins and other sundry nefarious sorts occupy their own parallel version of it, with its own peculiar rules which almost seem quaint. They have their own currency: gold coins reminiscent of pirates doubloons, which can be used for goods and services or just as thanks for a favor. And they frequent an upscale, downtown hotel and bar called The Continental  Lance Reddick from The Wire is the unflappably polite manager, a sort of safe zone where protocol dictates that peace prevails, and where killing is cause for dismissal. The courtliness of it all provides an amusing and welcome contrast to the non-stop carnage. You can check out any time you'd like, it seems, but you can never leave.   