For better and for worse, Joshy believably creates the sensation of a low-key weekend hang with a bunch of bros. You probably wouldnt want to spend that much time with these people yourself, but at least theyre never boring. With his second feature, writerdirector  Jeff Baena improves on his ambitious but tonally inconsistent zombie comedy  Life After Beth." Hes assembled a group of skilled improv actors with roots in TV comedy, indie film or both and worked with them to develop their own dialogue from a treatment. They lived together in a few rented houses in the pastoral and trendy getaway destination of Ojai, California, and shot in chronological order. Many of them were friends or had worked together before, and that familiarity gives the film a comfortable, lived-in vibe, despite the underlying tension that frequently simmers between the characters theyre playing. The shaggy, meandering nature of Joshy makes it unpredictable, but it also makes it a little loose to the point where the pacing slacks a bit. While the main characters are all distinct, they also dont feel like fully developed people. And an embarrassment of casting riches means we only get tantalizing, too-quick glimpses of engaging actors like  Jake Johnson,  Lauren Graham,  Alison Brie and Baenas real-life girlfriend, Life After Beth star  Aubrey Plaza. Thomas Middleditch of HBOs Silicon Valley is the star this time as the sweetly understated title character. Joshys engagement to the briefly-seen Rachel Brie ends abruptly at the films start. You may read what happened elsewhere' Im not going to spoil it for you here. But when his best friend, Ari  Adam Pally, realizes four months later that he cant get the deposit back on the house hed rented for the bachelor party, the guys decide to head to Ojai anyway to lift Joshys spirits for the weekend. Joshy, Ari, the swaggering Eric  Nick Kroll and the uptight Adam independent filmmaker  Alex Ross Perry comprise the group initially. But Eric then invites along his equally loud-mouthed buddy, Greg  Brett Gelman, whom nobody else knows, to up the party factor. Eventually, they all meet up at a local bar with  Jenny Slates Jodi, whos in town celebrating her birthday and who strikes up a flirtatious connection with married, new-dad Ari. So, what was supposed to be a no-stress weekend for a few friends to get together over beers and board games turns into an increasingly raucous extravaganza of drugs, hot-tub hopping, strippers and more. Not the most novel concept for a film, its true. But what keeps Joshy intriguing is that none of these activities are as pleasingly wild as theyre supposed to be. Something always goes wrong or at least goes off-kilter. Joshy is at its best when exploring the way men in their s regard each other how they feel each other out and try to one-up each other even as theyre establishing their own ever-shifting identities. Kroll and Perry in particular engage in an enjoyable push-pull as they passive-aggressively try to exert control over the direction and tone of the weekend. And the always adorable Jenny Slate brings a much-needed, warm female presence as their random, new friend. But even though many of their improvised exchanges are entertaining, a lingering sense of Who are these people? leaves the movie ultimately feeling unsatisfying. Real-life married filmmakersactors and indie darlings Joe and  Kris Swanberg show up with their young son about halfway through for no apparent reason and leave just as quickly. And a third-act confrontation with the parents of Joshys ex-fiance  Paul Reiser and  Lisa Edelstein takes the film in a suddenly darker, jarring direction from which it never quite recovers. Still, maybe the best way to view Joshy is how you would approach a weekend vacation with a bunch of your own random friends: with low expectations and the assumption that whatever happens, happens.   