In ,  Yossi Ghinsberg, all of  years old, traveled to South America with dreams of adventure. He ended up in La Paz, Bolivia where he befriended Marcus Stamm, a Swiss teacher, and Kevin Gale, an American photographer. Together, they set out on an expedition into the uncharted Amazon led by the mysterious Karl Ruprechter, an Austrian man who claimed to have knowledge of hidden gold. After traveling for several days with low supplies and frayed nerves, the four men separated Karl and Marcus would walk while Yossi and Kevin set out on the river in a raft. But as the raft neared a waterfall, Yossi and Kevin lost control and got separated from each other. Yossi spent three weeks stranded in the jungle with no supplies and little food before being rescued by a search mission just before they were about to abandon hope.   Yossis remarkable tale of bravery and fortitude feels ready made for a film adaptation, one that delves into the psychological horrors he faced alone in the jungle, uncertain if hed ever make it out alive. Director Greg McLean best known for his debut horror film  Wolf Creek delivers on this promise with the gritty, yet ultimately overwrought Jungle. Starring the always-game  Daniel Radcliffe as Yossi, Jungle succeeds in communicating the young Israeli kids horrible situation, as well as the camaraderie between him and his new friends, but falls short when trying to visually explicate his mental state.  For most of the film, McLean coasts on the real-life details of Yossis story to great effect. He and Radcliffe wonderfully capture Yossis open, yet reckless mindset as he lands in La Paz and meets Marcus played by  Joel Jackson and Kevin  Alex Russell, who conveys just the right amount of American arrogance. McLean strikes the right tone during Yossi and the crews first few days out in the jungle, hovering somewhere between dangerous and exciting. Hes also perceptive about how the unstable environment creates a hierarchy amongst those who dare enter it Yossi and Kevin adapt right away, but Marcus immediately feels out of place and his blistered, cut-open feet are unable to keep up with his buddies. Marcus begins to lose it while Yossi and Kevin resent him for dragging them down.  Ironically, Jungle starts to lose its way when Yossi loses his. As soon as McLean has only Radcliffe and the jungle as his two main characters, he starts over-relying on cheap effects and hoary psychological clichs to express Yossis fraught state of mind. Yossi certainly suffered from hallucinations and near-fatal exhaustion during his harrowing journey, but Jungle illustrates this with faux-delirious imagery and wholly unnecessary flashbacks that exist only to break up the monotony of the action. There seems to be great trepidation on McLeans part to simply allow Radcliffe to communicate the characters own internalized emotions. Instead, he employs visual gimmickry as cheap support.     Its a shame because Radcliffe carries Jungle on his shoulders, when McLean or  Justin Monjos script lets him. He admirably throws himself into this role and plays Yossi as a kid who got into an adventure that was way over his head. He excels at channeling Yossis frustration with his own rudimentary exploration skills, like when he realizes hes spent the day walking in a circle or when he cant get the rescue plane overhead to see his location. He stumbles occasionally when he has to monologue his own fears his shaky Israeli accent is mostly to blame, but its primarily a physical role, and luckily hes up to the task. Theres still great charge in watching the former Harry Potter as an emaciated wreck, crawling through the brush whilst screaming for help.  Despite its many obvious flaws shaky dialogue, unsubtle sound design, a strong tendency to visually explicate simple ideas Yossis story has enough weight on its own to render Jungle a moderately compelling survival flick. The film is on solid ground when it relies solely on the unique dangers of the Amazon, like in the films best scene when Yossi finds a parasite lodged in his forehead and must use tweezers to extract it. Moreover, Yossis straightforward plight makes him a strong protagonist and keeps the audience invested in his struggle to stay alive. Sometimes a compelling reality is all you need to make a good fiction. 