Reflecting on Nick Berardini's Killing Them Safely on the night of Chicago protests for another death of a civilian due by excessive police force, the tension between civilians and law enforcement remains thoroughly despairing. Both sides, regardless of power, have a very human but potentially destructive fear. In the scenarios where a police officer may initially desire humanity, there have to be better methods for cops to properly engage civilians.Berardinis doc vigorously proves that despite their marketing, Tasers are not the answer. They are only means to a bigger, deadlier problem. In his directorial debut, Berardini sets his sights on the billion-dollar Taser company, and the men behind it brothers Rick and Tom Smith who repeatedly claim that they have changed the world for the better. Taser is the only company in the world that creates these conducted electrical weapons or CEWs, as currently used by , police forces throughout the world. For their police pice de rsistance, Tom and Rick Smith upgraded Jack Covers original  Taser to become something that doesnt just shock the human body, it practically stops it with , volts. When Tasers X took off in the early s, it became a phenomenon for the company. But then, very human elements began to unravel the Taser's perfect facade. As detailed in Berardini's collected news reports, the Taser was revealed to be a type of police crutch, an easier option than physically detaining someone like a six-year-old at school, or a -year-old in a wheelchair as in . Despite its intent as a self-proclaimed, "non-lethal" instrument meant to snuff a disturbance, Tasers aided excessive police force to the number of  Taser-related deaths by .The power of Killing Them Safely is that it brings to light some of these cases that may have been swept under the rug. It heroically questions that even if the Taser doesn't always kill, why should even one unfortunate loss be acceptable? Throwing Tasers poster catchphrase back in their face, Berardini has essentially made a film to protect the truth and convict the guilty. Though lacking personality in its indictment, Killing Them Safely is armed with vigorous detail and horrific footage of Tasers taking lives on camera, played out in full. A particularly disturbing episode involves the famous case of Robert Dziekaski, a frustrated Polish immigrant who was tasered to death in a Canadian airport by Mounties untrained in the proper Taser use. Another involves the death of -year-old Stanley Bachtel, who was tasered to death after being pulled over for speeding and freaking out about how the cops were treating him. Like many others, he was shocked into a state of cardiac arrest.    Killing Them Safely can be dry, especially when its second half turns to the medical investigations against Taser and the Smith brothers by prosecuting attorneys Peter Williamson and John Burton. The often jaw-dropping, scandalous nature of Taser's defenses is downplayed, despite the can of worms they offer to the current state of police business and even gun control "Tasers don't kill people, people kill people".By no coincidence, Killing Them Safely doesnt create compelling characters out of any of its reoccurring talking heads, despite their interactions with the Taser enterprise. Even Berardinis fervor to burn Taser to the ground with a documentarians vengeance comes from an unknown place, an incomplete big picture created in the process. Killing Them Safely is valiant at damaging a Goliath business where it counts, decimating the purpose and potential of a golden product. Berardini has lots of content here to break the delusions of those who want to believe the peace behind Tasers, or not question the motives within those who hold authority. Especially for those in law enforcement, Killing Them Safely should be required viewing before taking taxpayer money to invest in their next attempt at serving and protecting their fellow man. 