Stop me if you think youve heard this one before: A coolly handsome, accomplished professional secretly goes on a jealousy-fueled killing spree. A nosy detective and a pesky secretary find their way into the mix.References to specific bands of the era and three-way sexual escapades abound. Yes, Kill Your Friends inevitably invites comparisons to  American Psycho, both in its themes and content, and it doesnt measure up favorably. Its amusingly slick and mean for a while, but ultimately the films one-note nihilism grows numbing, and its stylish visuals and well-chosen soundtrack can only do so much to keep it lively. But director  Owen Harris shows some real flashes of verve with his first feature, based on  John Nivens novel of the same name about an Aamp'R executive working at a London-based record label when s Britpop bands like Blur, Oasis and Radiohead ruled. Niven, a veteran Aamp'R man himself, also adapted the screenplay, and I wonder whether some of his crueler lines played better on the page than they do in star  Nicholas Hoults copious voiceover. Harris pacing is snappy and hes created a vivid sense of place, full of stark, gleaming interiors and lurid, neon-lit dance clubs. You just wouldnt want to spend a lot of time in any of these places or with any of these characters. Hoult is well-cast, though, as the self-serving and soulless Steven Stelfox, who doesnt actually care about signing bands that are worthwhile or even good. He only cares about making money. With his steely blue eyes, sharp cheekbones and sinewy frame, hes a merciless animal on the prowl. Sleekly, expensively dressed, hes beautiful but dangerous, but his repeated fourth-wall breaking becomes more annoying than menacing. As an indelible pop-culture figure, hes no Patrick Bateman mainly because he isnt given the opportunity to provide much shading, which makes him far less frightening. But its easy to imagine the two characters being devious rivals in American PsychoKill Your Friends fan fiction. Although Stelfox surely would never approve of Batemans treasured collection of s favorites like  Huey Lewis and the News and Genesis. When we first meet Stelfox, its  a.m. and hes doing insane amounts of cocaine with his slovenly co-worker, Waters  James Corden, who might become his boss. Waters also will become Stelfoxs first unfortunate victim and make him the target of a police investigation. In this cynical world, though, the detective assigned to the case  Edward Hogg is an aspiring musician who slips Stelfox a demo CD after asking him a few softball questions about where he was on that fateful night. His opportunistic secretary, Rebecca  Georgia King, also uses her suspicions about him to blackmail him for a better job. And Stelfox finds he must be constantly on guard for the guy who does end up becoming his new boss  Tom Riley, an upstart Aamp'R man whos been brought in from a rival label to sign the hot, new acts. If there is anyone in this film whos actually interested in the potentially transformative power of music, hes it so you know hes in trouble.   Thats the thing about Kill Your Friends: It has mood and dark laughs to spare, but no real surprises. Everyone is horrible all the time so when they do horrible things to each other, the result is a chuckle rather than a vicious bite. The music business is cutthroat, we get it. But its the music itself that makes Kill Your Friends work when it does work.Besides the propulsive score from  Junkie XL whose recent work includes  Mad Max: Fury Road, the evocative soundtrack includes unexpected songs from Blur and Oasis, as well as hits from The Chemical Brothers and The Prodigy. Although the use of Radioheads Karma Police as Stelfox reaches his lowest point in terms of self-control and substance abuse is way too on-the-nose. He literally crawls on his hands and knees toward the television as Thom Yorke sings on the video: This is what youll get when you mess with us. And the acts themselves that Stelfox must juggle while trying to hide his homicidal tendencies are a hoot a very knowing cross-section of the kinds of music that were popular about  years ago. Theres a self-important, Swedish indie band called The Lazies' a self-destructive, experimental rapper named Rage Osy Ikhile' a misogynistic German DJ  Moritz Bleibtreu whose biggest hit has a title thats so vile, we cant even hint at it here' and a half-baked  Spice Girls rip-off called The Songbirds consisting of four girls who cant sing or dance. In case we didnt know from the films overpoweringly cynical tone that the music industry is shallow and soul-sucking, these groups make that point ring out loud and clear. 