Lady Macbeth has the refined, pleasing trappings of a tasteful period piece with the vicious, beating heart of a brutal psychological thriller. You cant stop watching its beauty, even as you long to look away from its cruelty.   Much of the films allure comes from its central, powerhouse performance from  Florence Pugh. In only her second feature, the -year-old actress reveals the kind of technical precision and command of the screen youd see in a veteran. And in only his first feature, British theater director  William Oldroyd is wise enough to keep the films tone and surroundings minimal to give Pugh maximum room to shine. Its a sinister light that radiates from her  although, not at first. Part of whats so fascinating about Lady Macbeth, and its script from  Alice Birch, is the way in which it manages to maintain Pughs characters status as a strangely sympathetic figure, even as she commits increasingly horrific acts. She does it all in the name of liberation, but that freedom ultimately comes at a hefty price.   Lady Macbeth is based not on the iconic Shakespearean character but on Nikolai Leskovs Russian novella Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk, which tackled the ways in which the female spirit could be stifled in the  th  century, particularly in rural communities. When we first see Pughs Katherine, its on her wedding day in ' just from this opening scene, Oldroyd efficiently sets the tone for the films prevailing austerity.   This should, theoretically, be a joyous occasion. But at just , Katherine is being forced into a marriage with a man more than twice her age: the emotionally withholding Alexander  Paul Hilton, whose wealthy father, Boris  Christopher Fairbank, has purchased Katherine along with a plot of land. Katherines sole purpose is to provide an heir, but its clear from the couples cold, sexless wedding night thats going to be a challenge.   Im thick-skinned, she proclaims in the darkness of their bedroom, defiantly. And shes going to need that.   She slogs around the joyless house, day after day, with her ever-present maid, Anna  Naomi Ackie, serving as the main witness to her boredom and frustration. As showy as Pughs performance is externally, Ackie does just as much mostly wordlessly with just her eyes and her presence, especially as the situation grows more extreme. But when both of the oppressive men in her life are forced to leave the familys remote estate on business, Katherine takes the opportunity to begin exploring the outside world  which prompts an awakening inside her.   Cinematographer Ari Wegner gives the wild, sprawling grounds a grimy, tactile quality thats bleakly beautiful. It matches the sound design, which is spare but intense. Such an approach is fitting given the fascinating contradictions of our heroine. Pugh has a bracing naturalism within this chilly, restrained setting, making her a force of nature unto herself.   Nowhere is that more evident than in the passionate, ill-advised affair Katherine hurtles headlong into with the estates groomsman, Sebastian  Cosmo Jarvis. A strong and handsome man of mixed race, Sebastian shows Katherine zero deference, which naturally drives her wild. And yes, I realize this all sounds like the stuff of cheesy romance novels, but rest assured that Lady Macbeth is deadly serious.   The less you know about where the film goes from here, though, the better. Suffice it to say that the mushrooms that worked their magic in the patriarchal pressure cooker of  Sofia Coppolas  The Beguiled are just as effective here, across the Atlantic, during the same time period. Both are horror movies brilliantly disguised as genteel dramas, with prim women resorting to drastic measures to assert their identities.   As fascinatingly flawed as Katherine is, though, the source of her treachery remains a mystery. We dont really know who she is before her dreaded wedding day, which perhaps lessens the enormity of her arc. Similarly, Sebastian is sexy and powerful but theres not much to him beyond the external manifestation of his masculinity. He is a concept, a catalyst.   Still, the fate Katherine shares with him remains devastating. Hers is a damned spot that nothing could rub out.  