Its hard not to make a Twilight joke in a review of a film about a man in the later years of his life confronted with werewolves in suburbia, but Ill try and avoid it.  Adrin Garca Boglianos Late Phases tells just such a story, sketching a horror-comedy about a grizzled Vietnam vet named Ambrose  Nick Damici, who moves to a community that seems to run into trouble every  or so days with each full moon. Bogliano cant quite manage the tones of the film, resulting in a frustrating piece of work overall, but Damici gives his memorable protagonist enough life to hold it together more often that it would have otherwise. Hes great here. The movie around him, not so much. Writing a horror film with a blind, elderly Vietnam vet as its protagonist is a risky proposition, but Damici rises to the challenge as Ambrose, a man we meet moving to a new community with his dog Shadow and the help of his son Will  Ethan Embry. As hes feeling the wall of his new abode, Ambrose pulls a massive claw from the wall. Somethings not right behind these picket fences. The local older women initially take to Ambroses rugged persona, but he soon rubs them the wrong way with his tendency to say whats on his mind and brandish a loaded weapon. Ambrose doesnt make friends easily. And he doesnt seem to care. He just wants to live out his final days with his dog and his peace and quiet. Of course, thats interrupted the first night hes there by an attack on the kind woman living next door. Ambrose hears the fight, in which we see a man-sized wolf tear an old woman apart those turned off by gore might want to stay away and hes quickly a part of the attack when Shadow gets involved, and ends up dead. One night in his new community, and Ambrose has to bury his only remaining companion. Naturally, hes pissed. And hes going to get to the bottom of the animal attacks in his new community. The cops dont care. The suburban sprawl has extended near the forest and theyre eager to write off the concerns of the older residents as animal attacks. Ambrose knows more is going on, and tries to figure out who may be a creature of the night when the moon turns full. Could it be the kindly Priest  Tom Noonan? Time to get some silver bullets, build a cross, and find out. The way that society discards its elderly, represented by Embrys distant son and the dismissive authorities in this community, adds an interesting subtext to Boglianos film. And Ambroses background does some of the same, painting this battle with the supernatural as one last trip in the country for the veteran. He may be blind, he may be old, and he may have regrets, but this thing killed his dog and hes going to do what's right, goddammit. Damici finds just the right energy for the role, never overplaying Ambrose's potentially scenery-chewing traits. In fact, its how seriously Damici plays the part that allows it to work. He never winks at the camera as a lot of other actors would have. He takes Ambroses plight seriously.   Sadly, I cant quite say the same about Bogliano. He never quite convinced me that he figured what kind of film he was trying to make. A lot of the creature design is misguided exaggerated and goofy more than scary, and some of the tonal jumps are jarring. The film goes from character-driven drama with Ambrose and his new religious exploration late in life to remarkably gory horror to something that plays more like a horror-comedy with one-liners that would have worked in Bubba Ho-Tep. I think the various tones in  Eric Stolzes script proved more of a challenge than Bogliano expected. Balancing horror, comedy and drama in a way that makes all three effective is incredibly difficult. All three typically end up getting less attention than they need. 