The late French filmmaker  Chris Marker, who died in  at the age of , was a pioneer of what some critics call the essay film, but hes best known for his perhaps entirely fictional short, the seminal  time-travel tale La Jete. That less-than-a-half-hour movie is a massive influence on almost every sci-fi piece on time-travel since, not to mention a direct, credited inspiration for  Terry Gilliams visionary feature Twelve Monkeys. He never made another film like it, at least directly like it. But every one of his nearly  other films are intimately tied to that masterpiece, because they are all about human perception and history and memory, and how they all warp our lives.  His  movie Level Five is only now getting a release in the United States, and its a fascinating hybrid. Shot with low-budget equipment suited to a putatively rough-and-ready aesthetic, its a fictional documentary examining the battle of Okinawa in World War II, a conflict that, by Markers lights, helped usher in the terrifying atomic age in which we still live. Markers other works, remarkable movies such as A Grin Without A Cat and Sans soleil, bracing, personally inflected treatments of historical studies and anthropology, established the filmmaker as someone for whom the idea of objective history is thoroughly objectionable. So here he treats Okinawa through a fictionally contrived premise: the labors of Laura Catherine Belkhodja a computer enthusiast and video game developer, as she tries to develop a strategy game based on the battle a cyber rewrite of history, in a sense. Markers narrator lightly interrogates Laura, who keeps a video diary of sorts, and teases the unseen filmmaker with personal reminiscences of their relationship, for instance, recollecting the first time they heard David Raksins musical theme to  Otto Premingers film  Laura together.  Whats that got to do with Okinawa? you may well ask now, and Im not sure the movie will give you a satisfactory answer. All of Markers philosophical explorations are tinged, at the very least, by his own cinephilia like many French filmmakers of his generation, he was active as a critic and in a sense remained so throughout his life, and for those who like their probings into historical trauma straight down the alley and digression-free, Level Five will be a very frustrating and arguably overly French experience. I say French because the movie partakes in a kind of discourse thats very much in a French intellectual tradition, the discursive semiotic inquiry in which ones own cast of mind is necessarily grist for the cerebral mill. In other words, its Markers position that he cannot make a film about Okinawa even if he and his cinematographer travel and shoot there which they did' he can only make a film about thinking about Okinawa. That being what this is, if you can hook into it, Level Five is not just witty, insinuating, and penetrating' its also unexpectedly moving and, as deliberately threadbare as it often looks, cinematically rich. Its imagery derives directly from a time when computer graphics were so much cruder than theyve become that its almost difficult to believe. Lauras interaction with protocols, mysterious individuals in user groups and chat rooms of the late s, underscores the way technology is constantly seeming to redefine epistemology' this makes Level Five a kind of prophetic text in a way perhaps Marker himself didnt even anticipate. Is it a masterpiece? Whos to say' but like every other film Marker made, its an exemplary and resonant address on the life of the mind and the life outside of that one.  