At the end of this movie, before the closing credits, a few screens worth of text informs the viewer of the casualty rate of the electrical lineman over the past few years, and gives the name of a website whose mission is to memorialize fallen electrical line workers, and care for the families who have lost or are impacted by a severe injury of a loved one in the line of duty. We strive to consolidate accident and injury information to share openly for a safer work environment. Its web address is  http:fallenlinemen.org and the site is well worth visiting.   I point this out now because I am obliged to assess the movie that preceded it. That movie does not, I think, do the job it intended, which was, I think, to make the lineman's work accessible to the viewer and to honor the courage and sacrifice of those who labor to keep the nations electrical grid safe and operative. This is one of those based on true events movies that give you the distinct feeling that the true events deserved better.   After introducing the framing device of an interview with a lineman played by  Devon Sawa, the movie begins again with a prologue set in  Texas, with  John Travolta, in unconvincing young-age makeup, as Beau Ginner, a Texas lineman working in the middle of a lightning storm. He fails to rig some wires properly' his coworker, whos also his brother, chastises him, goes up the pole, and is soon killed after lightning hits a wire. His sister-in-law is killed in an auto accident rushing to the scene. Ginner is left with his memories, his job, and his young niece Bailey, who grows up to be played by  Kate Bosworth, who also played the sister-in-law.   Experience has made Beau a safety maven, and sentiment has made Bailey a round the way girl who has the potential to go to college one would think so, at age , although I guess Bosworths playing younger but prefers to work in a diner and be a townie which means being part of the lineman extended family. Here is where the narrative complications come in, and boy is director  David Hackl not up for them. Here we go: Bailey has a sort-of ex-boyfriend named Duncan thats Devon Sawas character whos a bit of a bad boy, motorcycle and all. Hes also got an alcoholic mom, a lineman widow, played by  Sharon Stone in dampened  Casino mode. Hes decided to straighten out, so he gets a job working the line, much to the chagrin of Beau. Then theres Ron  Matt Bellefleur, a creepy ex of Baileys whos hanging around all sorts of places where he isnt welcome. Beau and Bailey also have new across-the-street neighbors,  Ryan Robbins Eugene, a lineman whos also an Iraq war veteran with PTSD, and his wife Carline  Julie Benz, whos good-hearted and loyal up to a point, and who picks the wrong way to balk at Eugenes neglect and borderline abuse. As a major storm approaches their town you know this because every other scene or so a title comes up saying X Days Before THE STORM, with graphics like some cable news special or something the characters abrade each other in various ways, Bailey reveals a secret, and somethings gotta give. In case you missed it, its pretty clear that the storm is gonna make everything and more do that giving.  These plot lines arent simple, but theyre not exactly convoluted either. Frequently while watching Life on the Line I thought how much better theyd be handled straight and clean and without fuss in a s or s working-mans melodrama from Warner Brothers, maybe one by a director along the lines of Raoul Walsh. He made one of the great men-in-a-dangerous-profession pictures, s They Drive By Night, about truck drivers. But Life on the Line muddles them hopelessly, first by way of its myriad and busy structural devices, and then by inserting flashbacks that have all the logic of hiccups, and then, finally, by overplaying its melodramatic hand.      To John Travoltas credit, he doesnt phone in what could have been an indifferent role. His accent gets a little broad at times, but hes sincere and conscientious in his portrayal of a working man who doesnt want to be a hero, but will if he has to be. Sawa is better than okay too, as is  Gil Bellows' only Bellefleur strays into egregious ham territory. The themes and the actors make you want the movie to be better, but the overreach combined with the sloppy sensationalism of the suspense scenes make Life on the Line the wrong kind of cinematic ordeal.  