After the relatively warm-and-fuzzy space odysseys of  Arrival and  Passengers its salutary to see a relatively big studio sci-fi picture in which the final frontier is once again relegated to the status of Ultimate Menace. Genre thrill-seekers disgusteddisappointed by  Prometheus but still salivating like Pavlovs Dog at the prospect of Alien: Covenant might find Life, directed by  Daniel Espinosa, a satisfactory stopgap measure, a cinematic Epipen of outer-space mayhem to steady the nerves until the ostensible Main Event. As for myself, Ive been gorging on such fare since before  Alien itself It! The Terror from Beyond Space and Planet of the Vampires were among my various cinematic bread and butters as a young maladjusted cinephile.    As such, Life struck me as several cuts above meh but never made me jump out of my seat. The picture takes place almost entirely on a claustrophobic, labyrinthine space station' director Espinosa and cinematographer  Seamus McGarvey have a lot of fun in the early scene floating the camera along with the space station crew. Ryan Reynolds cocky Roy is the cowboy of the bunch' he goes on a spacewalk to catch an off-course capsule full of research materials straight from Mars. Cautious medical officer David, played by an often bug-eyed  Jake Gyllenhaal, is initially the fella who says things like We werent trained for this.  Rebecca Fergusons Miranda plays den mother to him and others. Science dude Hugh  Ariyon Bakare, paralyzed from the waist down, loves zero gravity conditions, and initially loves the single-cell organism named Calvin by a group of contest-winning schoolchildren down on home sweet Earth hes wrested from a sample of Martian soil. Two other crew members are played by  Olga Dihovichnaya and  Hiroyuki Sanada, the latter back in space for the first time since  Danny Boyles  Sunshine. You may remember the nickname Dead Meat from Hot Shots, or the phrase Bantha Fodder from one of the  Star Wars movies. However. One of the bigger-name crew members does get to play spoiler alert, sort of a reprise of the  Steven Seagal role in  Executive Decision. Thats because little Calvin suddenly starts growing awful fast. At first its kind of like a living version of those icky sticky wall-tumbling toys. Which is bad enough. Eventually it grows into a tentacled cross between a mutant lotus and an irritated cobra. Its pretty gnarly. But early on I thought, lets face it, it aint Giger. Or Giger-league. And without that youre always going to suffer by comparison. The other effects and settings are solid but unextraordinary, although the hiccupped blood bubbles that float around after escaping from Calvins victims are a nice ghoulish touch.   Theres also the constant, insistent score by  Jon Ekstrand, bearing down right from the opening and not doing much for the cause. There are some disquieting bits the early scene in which the maturing Calvin grabs on to Hughs gloved hand and simply will not let go is a nice burner, for sure. But the movies story beats are inescapably commonplace. Theres even a bit derived from The Thing From Another World in which one ill-advised character contemplates Calvins scientific awesomeness. Either screenwriters  Rhett Reese and  Paul Wernick havent got the goods, or there really are only so many things you can do with a homicidal space creature and a manned ship.      It doesnt help that just as the movie should be hurtling toward its climax, it pauses for some character development. A childrens book that makes a Chekhovian appearance in the first act holds the key to survival in the final one, and I didnt buy it. What the filmmakers dont understand is that when you try to add overtly cerebral notes to ruthless B-picture scenarios, you actually wind up making your final product dumber than the movies you think youre transcending. Life bounces back a bit with a commitedly sour punchline, and then blows that by punching up a s hit youve heard a million times before in a million better cinematic contexts. And thats Life.   