Life After Beth gets into the well-tread zombie-comedy territory in a clever and inspired way. Then it doesnt get out of it nearly so skillfully.  The feature debut from writer-director  Jeff Baena, who co-wrote the  existential comedy  I Heart Huckabees with  David O. Russell, begins life as a surreal slow burn. Mopey, twenty-ish Zach  Dane DeHaan is mourning the death of his girlfriend, Beth  Aubrey Plaza, Baenas real-life girlfriend, who suffered a snakebite while hiking. Unable to let her go, he finds solace by growing closer to her parents, Maury and Geenie  John C. Reilly and  Molly Shannon showing up at her house, snuggling in her colorful knit scarf despite the summer heat and staying up all night playing chess and sharing a joint with her equally bereft dad. Baena effectively conveys the fog from which Zach cannot extricate himself, and the disconnect from society that envelops and comforts him. Zachs own parents  Paul Reiser and  Cheryl Hines, in barely-there roles are helpless and clueless' then again, they hardly even try. And his militant security-guard brother  Matthew Gray Gubler stridently urges him to snap out of it.  But then, on one of his many visits to Beths house, Zach thinks he sees fleeting glimpses of her through the windows. And hes right because she isnt really dead. She might have been at one point, but now shes something else entirely. She looks like Beth and sounds like Beth for a while, at least but now she listens to smooth jazz, worries about some vague test she needs to study for and spends way too much time up in the attic. These intriguing personality quirks initially form a central mystery but end up going nowhere. Because as it turns out and this isnt a spoiler, folks Beth is a straight-up zombie, but she doesnt know she died in the first place, and her parents dont want to upset the familys renewed happiness by telling her. This sets up a few instances of amusing, hectic comedy, but its one of many ideas in the movie that dont feel fully fleshed out, if youll pardon the inadvertent pun. Baena poses a potentially mawkish question what would you do if you had a second chance at love in an offbeat, unsentimental way. And thats the most interesting element of Life After Beth: the way it causes us to wonder what state Beths in, exactly, whether shell be discovered and how far Zach will go to rekindle their romance. In time, Life After Beth morphs from a dark comedy with some glimmers of horror to a straight-up horror film with some glimmers of humor. Its a tough transition to make.  Edgar Wrights brilliant Shaun of the Dead, to which Life After Beth surely will draw comparisons, set the standard for this sort of tonal shift. Beths zombiedom, however, leads to an inexplicable uprising of the undead, which ends just as quickly for whatever reason. Did she open some sort of portal? Does everyone think theyre in the Michael Jackson Thriller video? Similarly, Baena seems to have glossed over the interior logic when it comes to Beth herself. Sometimes shes predatory' sometimes shes romantic. The tension should be building, but instead it just sort of shuffles along.   Zach, meanwhile, is defined exclusively by his grief. Who is he? What does he want to be? What does he like to do? The character is entirely reactive. DeHaan can have an unsettling presence, as hes shown recently as the villainous Harry Osborn in  The Amazing Spider-Man  and as the seductive Lucien Carr in  Kill Your Darlings. Here, he just doesnt get much of a character to play, despite being in every scene. Plaza seems game as she navigates a huge range, both physically and emotionally from sweet and demure to confused and excited to unhinged and ravenous. Shes in the tricky spot of having to pull off some of the films more complicated combinations of instincts, as she sometimes must be adorable and terrifying at the same time. Her off-kilter appeal serves her well here. If only it were in the service of better material. 