Lance Dalys Lifes a Breeze is as amiable and windswept as its title promises, for better or worse. One wishes it gusted a bit more often, but the always-great  Fionnula Flanagan and truly charming newcomer Kelly Thornton nearly justify the films more sitcomish, hackneyed scenes. Nearly. Having adored Dalys wonderful coming-of-age-meets-fairy-tale film Kisses, I was hoping for a bit more of that magic in Breeze, and, other than the aforementioned two performances, one has to dig through too many false, forced comedy beats to find them here. Nan Flanagan is a good old-fashioned Irish hoarder. The Dublin resident has never been much trouble to her neighbors and generally keeps to herself. Her unemployed son Colm  Pat Shortt joins forces with his other family members to give Nan a gift she could never give herself a clean house. Niece Emma Thornton takes Nan out for the day, and they return to a spotless home. Old Chinese takeout menus, newspapers, broken kitchen appliances and an outdated TV: all gone. So is the old mattress Nan has been sleeping on for decades. And shoving her money in because she doesnt trust the banks. Thats right: theres a million Euros in a mattress now winding its way through the Dublin recycling system. A wacky journey to find it ensues. Sort of. While Lifes a Breeze has an undeniably sitcomish presence, its almost as if the realist in Daly refuses to embrace the potentially wacky set-up. And so were stuck with a film somewhere in the middle. It's not as offensively slapstick-y as it could have been but it's not realism either. It's caught in the boring center of those two ends of the spectrum.From a filmmaking standpoint, Lifes a Breeze is something of a jumble. Theres a whimsical score that sounds like a Mumford amp' Sons bridge on repeat that underlines the quirky tone in rather annoying ways. And the film looks flat, enhancing its sitcomish underpinnings. It might have worked as a week-long series. Nan and Her Annoying Clan. When the stripper firefighter showed up for Nans  th  birthday, I thought for sure I was watching something originally planned for BBC.  To be fair, character beats between Flanagan and Thornton, particularly in the final act, are truly effective. Flanagan has always been a performer who can do a lot with very little, and Thornton has the kind of natural screen presence that announces someone on the film scene. Shes the one performer here who truly feels in the moment' at least partially because it feels like shes the one character Daly truly likes. Dalys skill with slice of life connects in the scenes between Nan and Emma, and they nearly justify the piece in just a few truthful glances. These are two interesting characters brought to life by intriguing actresses. Too bad there isnt anything in Lifes a Breeze to support them. 