A description of the location and action or inaction of "Locke," a new movie written and directed by  Steven Knight, can make the movie sound like something of a stunt. Actually, lets just say that "Locke" is a stunt, inasmuch any work of art made under an entirely deliberate and arguably unnecessary restraint is. See, for instance, Georges Perecs novel "La Disparation," written without use of the letter "e." Perecs work is part of a larger strain of literature represented by a French faction called OuLiPo, of which he was a member. "Stunt" need not be a pejorative, and when a work of art made under constraint uses said constraint to advance its theme in a way that conventional means could not, then the stunt becomes a transcendent one.  Before I lose you all with this high-flown contemplation of aesthetics, Ill tell you the stunt of "Locke:" with the exception of its opening shot, which shows its title character getting into his tricked-out BMW, the movie is a one-man show that takes place as the title character is taking a long, fateful drive. The camera doesnt always stay in the car, but its with Locke for the whole drive. We hear the voices of others, but we dont see anyone else. The self-imposed minimalism of the conceit challenges Knight to make a compelling cinematic work. And it challenges the actor playing the title character more. Fortunately, that actor is  Tom Hardy, and boy does he do a job with his unusual, and unusually complex character. His face a clenched mask of thick brow and bearish beard, his voice a comfortingly gruff burr that can turn fearsomely sardonic at the tilt of a rearview mirror, Hardy uncannily conveys the weightless pressure and the suffocating freedom that can only be felt simultaneously by a man whos divesting himself of his entire way of life. Because thats what Locke is doing on his drive. Hes an architectural foreman whos running out on the biggest job of his life. Hes a family man whos making a confession of betrayal to his wife, the mother of his two boys. Hes doing all of this with full and appalling consciousness of the wreckage hes creating as hes doing it. Because of a decision hes made to make right on a wrong move he made some months ago. Because of a conviction hes arrived at to do something genuinely selfless. How right is Locke in making the decision to drop everything hes got to attend to the birth of a child he had never consciously intended to father? Thats up to the viewer to decide. Certainly audience members overly concerned with conventional plausibility will roll their eyes at certain circumstances of the scenario, but I wonder if theyll repent when its revealed that Knight the writer has been ahead of them the whole time, and has answers to their concerns that are both nicely constructive and morally provocative.   The films formal box is one that felt, to me at least, potentially Pinteresque, and Knight comes up with pauses and quasi-aphoristic bits of dialogue "You sound different.""I am the same." goes one representative exchange, and, later, one character rages "The difference between never and once is the difference between right and wrong" that recallhonor the late maestro while conveying their own uncomfortable truths. And while Hardy is alone on screen, hes not alone in terms of acting strength: the people hes talking through his life with are portrayed by the formidable likes of  Olivia Colman " Tyrannosaur," "Broadchurch",  Ruth Wilson "Anna Karenina" and  Ben Daniels "House of Cards", among others. The movie isnt perfect' Knight, who wrote " Dirty Pretty Things" and " Eastern Promises" and is here making his second feature as a director, sometimes gets a little carried away trying to maintain what he takes for visual interest. Not-too-functional shots of reflections of traffic lights in windshields and such play as a little labored, because they are. Thats not much to forgive, though, and in the end, "Locke" is a cinematic stunt that engrosses as it unspools, and pays dividends after its been accomplished.  