Rarely  do I find a movie that is so appalling if not outright insulting to all  of humanity and particularly, in this case, womankind that it gives  me a stomach ache. I prefer popcorn over Tums, so I intentionally stayed  away from " The Human Centipede"  and  since the plot descriptions alone  were enough to make me queasy.  Its true that " Scent of a Woman" gave me a nausea -inducing headache,  but that was caused more by  Al Pacinos shouting damn those obnoxious  Whoo-hahs than the actual story. And I came down with the flu during  " The Fifth Element", but there wasnt enough evidence that  Chris Tuckers  outlandish Ruby Rhod caused my fever besides, I would forgive Tucker  even if he was behind my illness on the basis of his subdued  wonderfulness in " Silver Linings Playbook".  But  "Locker " really put me off the Cobb salad that I had intended to dine  on at lunch. I actually was looking forward to sinking my teeth into a good  old-fashioned anthology flick in the style of "The Twilight Zone" that  might allow for some reflection upon life, one juicy chunk at a time.  Turns out, its more of a "Dont-Go Zone" type of movie. It  might have been a warning that this project that features four  vignettes surrounded by a wrap-around tale was Kickstarter-funded,  boasts no fewer than  producers at varying levels of blame and took a  number of years to get off the ground. But how bad could it be since  its massive cast includes that cute Ricky Schroeder of "Silver Spoons",  that sweet  Tatyana Ali from "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air", that funny  Curtis Armstrong from "Revenge of the Nerds"not to mention David  Huddleston, as in THE Big Lebowski himself? There is even the "Baywatch"-able  Krista Allen, who used to date  George Clooney several model-actress moons ago.  How  about amateurishly acted, illogically plotted, cruelly violent and  needlessly sexist bad? Any film that starts in an Old West theme park  and isnt called "Westworld" immediately signals a problem. Especially  since the cowpoke serving as our guide isnt  Yul Brynner or even Rod  Serling, but a self-satisfied philosophizing supervisor played by Uncle  Rico from " Napoleon Dynamite", who aims to teach a lesson in making the  right choices to the new nighttime janitor, an ex-con named Skip Jason  Spisak. After going on a bit about the phrase, Know thyself, Uncle  Rico begins to bore Skip and the audience by spinning a quartet of  yarns, all supposedly tied together by the presence of a locker bearing  the number .  But  what really draws the narratives together is a warped vision of the  universe where men drive all the action and women are reduced to being  on the sideline as either hookers, strippers, mistresses, gold diggers  or victimized wives. The only female character shown in a less than  demeaning way? Skips online tutor when he was in prison, who isnt  smart enough to know this scowling dude isnt exactly dating material.  First  up: Down and Out, a washed-up boxer Schroeder becomes the unlucky  owner of a pair of cursed gloves that causes him to win every fight not  just with a knock-out, but by basically pummeling his opponent to death.  The choice to not show us too much of the action inside the ring is  probably a smart one, considering the vicious outcomesalong with the  fact that  Martin Scorsese did not direct this segment. But the only  chill you will get watching how it all plays out is if you left your  sweater at home.   Did I mention this is the best-told story of the bunch?  For  No. , The Byzantine Order, we are suddenly thrust back to the early  s to witness the gathering of a Shrine-like club of lodge members  preparing to initiate a new member. Amid much phony quaintness is the  suggestion that something truly twisted and sadistic this way comes.  Instead, it is something confusing and stupid, most notable for  featuring a trombone-playing exotic dancer who stashes her baby in a  giant cakethe one she uses to jump out of in her act. Huddleston at  least returns to his Lebowski glory days as a grand poobah who bosses  everyone while ensconced in a wheelchair.  The  third vignette concerns a nervous mental patient who is considering a  leap from a tall building onto the city streets and a carny-like fast  talker who suddenly materializes nearby and claims to be a member of a  Suicide Club, in which bets are placed on those about to take their  own lives. The fourth and most off-putting of the chapters, The  Author, features a hit man with a horrendous Cuban accent who taunts  and terrorizes three women chained to a wall to find out which one hired  him to shoot a sleazy owner of a girly mag.  It  all comes round again to the faux Old West, as we see whether Uncle  Rico has gotten through to Skip in any way with his feeble fables. While  the finale at least puts the notion of an evil locker to some practical  use, it might have been better if the filmmakers simply stored all  the copies of "Locker " inside the haunted contraption and threw away  the key. 