Taking a wildly innovative approach to bringing Shakespeares text to the screen is always a tricky proposition. For every example that works, like  Michael Almereydas Hamlet  set in contemporary New York City, theres an admirable misfire like  Julie Taymors gender-bending  The Tempest . The Bard is an irresistible challenge for filmmakers, especially ones who want to put their own bold stamp on his centuries-old verse. Australian director  Justin Kurzel tackles  Macbeth with a few narrative tweaks and a whole lot of visceral violence. His film is just devastatingly gorgeous to look at with a climax soaked in a fiery red that suggests Macbeth on Mars even as it contains individual images that are so graphic, they may cause you to look away. And although hes maintained the crucial supernatural elements of The Scottish Play, as its known superstitiously, Kurzel also wallows in the grit and muck, which gives his film a texture and an immediacy. Chunks of mud and drops of blood fly across bleak, gray skies and craggy highlands in super slow motion.  Adam Arkapaw, the cinematographer, also shot the great Aussie indie Animal Kingdom as well as Kurzels debut feature, Snowtown. The look of it is so richly rough-hewn, youll feel as if you could reach out and touch it, even as the characters actions become increasingly repulsive. This Macbeth also grabs you with the charismatic presence of its two stars,  Michael Fassbender and  Marion Cotillard. Fassbender has made a career out of playing complicated, tormented figures, in movies ranging from  Hunger to Shame to   Years a Slave. The murder and madness of Macbeth are his bread and butter. Still, the danger that lurks beneath his lean, cool good looks gives his Macbeth an especially unsettling air. Cotillard, meanwhile, has an otherworldly quality that makes her menacing a quiet intensity in those enormous eyes and a standoffishness that makes her seem unpredictable, even though were all-too aware of the devious plot her Lady Macbeth has in store. In case its been a while since high school English class, or since youve watched previous film adaptations of Macbeth by  Roman Polanski or  Orson Welles: In  th -Century Scotland, the great warrior Macbeth, Thane of Glamis, receives a prophecy from three witches that he will be king someday. Kurzels version actually gives us a fourth witch for fun. His miserable and driven wife urges him to expedite the process by killing King Duncan  David Thewlis and seizing the crown for himself. None of this goes down as easily as hed hoped. This is a massive oversimplification, of course and Kurzels Macbeth, adapted by  Jacob Koskoff,  Michael Lesslie and  Todd Louiso and running just under two hours, does feel a bit truncated. If youre not already somewhat familiar with Shakespeares tragedy, this incarnation isnt about to go out of its way to provide much context or explain why certain characters matter. But in an intriguing contrast, while the scale of the battles and the scenery is enormous and awe-inspiring, some of the more famous moments and lines arrive in understated fashion in intimate spaces.   Lady Macbeths guilt-riddled Out, damned spot soliloquy comes in the form of an early-morning, misty-white sleepwalk, her oft-quoted words a mere whisper in the sacred stillness of a spare chapel. Its breathtaking. And later, Macbeth seems to be in a dreamlike state himself during the discovery he makes in the  Tomorrow , and tomorrow , and tomorrow  monologue, delivering his lamentations about sound and fury with neither of the above. Hes already a shell of his former self at this point, and Fassbender makes his characters despair as powerful as his ambition. The score from the directors brother,  Jed Kurzel, adds to the pervasive feeling of unease' string-heavy and rather rustic, it enhances the eeriness of both the prophecies of the witches and the lingering of the dead. In this regard,  Paddy Considine is especially well-cast as the doomed Banquo, Macbeths longtime friend who comes to an unsavory end. Whats done is done, as Lady Macbeth says in futilely trying to reassure her husband. But the dead dont have to like it. 