Manhattan Night is adapted from a novel by Colin Harrison named Manhattan Nocturne. If you ever needed a starker example of what currently separates the worlds of book publishing and moviemaking today, there you go: in books, you can still get away with using the word Nocturne in your title. The movie is a kind of neo-noir that begins pretty unpromisingly, with lead actor  Adrien Brody looking hangdog and unshaven as he traverses New York Citys mean, grey streets the movie has a lot of authentic Manhattan locations, and is pretty resourceful in faking it when its exteriors arent the real deal. All thats fine, but then theres the voiceover: I saw the new born and the dead, Brodys character, named Porter Wren, intones. Describing his work as a newspaper journalist, he continues, Im always running to the place where the bad thing just happened. Aside from being ineffectually portentous in and of itself, the doominess promises, in a sense, what the movie fails to deliver. Its pretty frustrating to watch a close-but-no-cigar movie like this. Brodys Wren is a family man in a job that hes afraid in going to be extinct any minute. And no, this movie isnt any more perceptive or surprising in its treatment of The Death Of Print And Its Attendant Integrity than pretty much any other movie has been. At a gala celebrating the acquisition of his paper by a predatory, porcine media mogul named Hobbs oh yeah the names in this movie he nevertheless catches the eye of a very comely young lady named Caroline  Yvonne Strahovski, who, it happens, wants him to look into the grisly and mysterious death of her husband, tyro filmmaker Simon Crowley. Played by  Campbell Scott, who sports dyed hair and the general mien of a guy who sleeps in a disused McDonalds fryer, Simon, seen in voluminous flashback, is a real piece of work, an emotional vampire obsessed with capturing truth via video. Tossing around phrases like My dark heart to your dark heart, he captivated the not-necessarily-his-type Caroline. And Caroline in turn tempts Porter from dedicated surgeon spouse Lisa  Jennifer Beals. If all this isnt enough, Hobbs played with the usual vicious glee by Stephen Berkoff wants something from Caroline, and is aggressively going through Porter to get it. This is not a bad scenario, all things considered: a kind of cross between  The Long Goodbye and The Big Clock with any number of curveballs added in case you think you know where its going in the event youre familiar with its antecedents. And the movie shows a more-than-cursory concern with the inner workings of its cast of desperate characters. But adapting writerdirector  Brian DeCubellis can never convincingly nail a tone of either dread or erotic obsession. When Brodys character surreptitiously enters Carolines apartment, and comes upon the sight of Strahovski in the shower, the cutaway to Brody in slack-jaw hangdog position is pretty much the most wrong kind of Kuleshov Effect. Its for this reason, too, that all of the ostensibly Big Reveals for the main characters end up stranded in Is That All There Is? land. DeCubellis also commits a few unforced errors, e.g., hiring the actor who played a senile dad confined to a nursing home in  Inside Llewyn Davis to here play, yes, a senile dad confined to a nursing home. The actor is  Stan Carp, and he does a fine job in both films, but, you know, come on. Quite a few of the cranky colleagues in the screening I went to also complained that certain plot mechanics didnt quite work, but they really just werent paying close enough attention. They worked fine. 