How do movies like Marauders get made? One assumes that every film has a creative impetus at some point in its production, but its incredibly hard to find one buried underneath this morally vile, incompetently made thriller. And so one has to wonder if it wasnt a paycheck gig for everyone involved. Was it merely the business aspect of show business? Or did director Steven C. Miller set out to make an intense thriller about on-the-edge cops and deadly criminals that would rivet viewers to their seats and justify their ticket or On Demand costs? Even for how negatively I responded to the bafflingly inept Marauders, I choose to believe that Miller and his overly talented cast didnt just do it for a paycheck. Even with that in mind, its hard to forgive. Marauders opens with a scene straight out of this years Triple , as a series of masked men pull off a complex bank heist. Theyre dressed like the protagonists from the video game Army of Two impersonalterrifying skull masks and bulletproof gear, and theyre highly-coordinated and technologically savvy. They even throw down speakers, so a Siri-esque voice can issue orders instead of the actual attackers ex., Do not hit the alarm or we will kill your manager. They complete the assault, and on the way out they shoot said bank manager point blank with a shotgun. From the beginning, Marauders displays signs of hyperactive, inept filmmaking, the kind that uses shaky cams and quick cuts instead of actual visual compositions. Its angry, loud and annoying. We soon learn that the bank was owned by a high-powered figure named Hubert  Bruce Willis, doing the bare minimum he can to get paid, who hides secrets of political and business leaders in his safety deposit boxes. Of course, the criminals of Marauders have more complex goals than mere accumulation of wealth, which is something that FBI Agent Jonathan Montgomery  Christopher Meloni quickly uncovers, with the help of fellow agents Stockwell  Dave Bautista and Wells  Adrian Grenier, and local cop Mims  Johnathon Schaech. Mims happens to have a wife dying of cancer, which should add to depth to his character but just feels manipulative. Marauders is such a by-the-numbers VOD-cop movie that it becomes depressing. A few scenes of plot furtherance as Montgomery tries to uncover the identity and purpose of the robber-murderers unfold, and then we get another crime, and then a bit more procedural, and then another crime, and then a conclusion. Roll credits. In between this predictable structure, were given next to nothing to care about. Meloni is an interesting choice for the role that essentially becomes the lead hes an underrated actor who more often gets supporting roles but the writers bestow him almost nothing interesting to play, forcing anger to become his defining trait. Hence, he opens doors like hes mad at them. Grenier looks bored and Bautista gives a supporting part more than it deserves.   And then theres the final act, full of revelations and twists designed to shock but just rips gigantic plot holes in the rest of the film, while also forcing it into a morally dubious conclusion. What is the point of Marauders? One cant take it seriously as social commentary at all, but it tries so hard to include that kind of material that it feels like it wants to be more than dumb fun. Im all for a well-made action film, even of the VOD variety, that delivers the thrills. But Marauders forgot the fun part. Its just dumb. 