Even in the event that you dont have any interest in Jerry Lewis as a dramatic actor which as it happens would be an unfortunate event indeed, the opening credits of Max Rose promise some excitement to the well-rounded cinephile andor connoisseur of American popular culture. A movie with an ensemble cast that includes  Dean Stockwell,  Claire Bloom, Rance Howard, Lee Weaver, Ileanna Douglas, and Mort Sahl who hasnt acted in a theatrical feature since , for heavens sake has to have something on the ball. And Max Rose, written and directed by longtime indie producer  Daniel Noah, does have something on the ball. Its ensemble cast. Okay, thats not all, but thats almost all. Lewis plays the title role, and as the opening credits roll out, there follow a familiar array of shots of the lead actor in his youth, his face Photoshopped into simulations of the life of his character, stuff youve seen in the pages of any Lewis biography. The only way this isnt distracting is if you have no prior interest in Lewis. Once we get to the actor himself, he is in a bereft, almost catatonic state. His wife of  years has just died, and he sits, wearing a red sweater and white shirt, in a grey, spacious living room, one that fills with buttery sunshine light when the movie flashes back to a time when his wife Eva Claire Bloom was present. He announces to Eva that  Kurt Vonnegut is on Charlie Rose this evening, and Eva responds that Vonnegut is a horses ass. Oh, old couple banter. Vonnegut himself died in , so one may be distractedly wondering when in the hell this movie was even made. , as it happens. Lewis goes through the paces of playing an old, sad man, and briskly conveys the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to. Things pick up in his conversations with his granddaughter Annie, played in alert, appealing fashion by Kelly Bish. The question of where old Max is to go and what hes to do is interrupted, in Maxs mind at least, by a discovery. Going through Evas things, he comes across a makeup compact that has an amorous-seeming inscription at its base. Its signed  Ben and dated . This rattles Max to the extent that at Evas funeral he delivers a stony eulogy saying that his life with Eva was a lie, and concluding Im a failure. I failed my wife. I failed my family. I failed myself. This is the most powerful scene in the film. Contemplating the locket, a viewer with any feeling for poor old Max might want to grab his shoulder and say, Its probably nothing. Forget about it. But the movies got another hour to go, and go it does, into Maxs minor breakdown and move into an old-age home, into confrontations with Maxs son Christopher  Kevin Pollak, into Maxs detective work that finally uncovers the Ben of the compact, which of course leads to the confrontation with Ben. And its during these final scenes that the movie, which had been skating on the thin ice of ensemble-cast goodwill much of the time, finally and definitively sinks.  I mentioned up top that if you had no interest in Lewis as a dramatic actor it was kind of your loss, but its also true that its tough to find a really good movie in which the comedic icon plays it entirely straight. The greatest, of course, is  Martin Scorseses coruscating  The King of Comedy. But as conventional and stiff as Max Rose itself is, Lewis performance in it is full of virtues: hes committed, disciplined, and entirely credible. As are all the other above-mentioned cast members. Theyre good enough that they sometimes make the commonplace material seem better, and wiser, than it is' this holds particularly true in the scenes between Lewis and Pollak. But in the end its the mediocrity of the scenario that resonates more. 