Halfway through Zachary Trietzs Men Go to Battle, any viewer who went into the film due to the promise of its title might well be entitled to sigh, If only. A more accurate title for the low-budget indie Civil War drama would be, Man Sing. Goes to Battle. Eventually. Sort of. For a While. Then Leaves. Other Man Stays Home. But to avoid that marquee-buster, heres the concise version: Mumblecore Civil War. Treitzs film might not seek out the association with that de facto movement, but its inevitable given their shared aesthetics and underlying artistic goals. Chief among those are the idea that story in the conventional sense isnt an important asset' the real point is to make films that show life as it really is rather than as standard movies portray it. Thats arguably a worthy enough starting point, but to convert it into something compelling, a film must find something engaging that substitutes for story charming performances, witty defiance of viewer expectations and interesting narrative diversions are among the options and its all got to be well-executed enough, even by fairly rough standards, to justify our attention. Men Go to Battle hits neither mark. In regards to execution, its failings are amplified and to an extent perhaps, caused by its being a period film. The notable Mumblecore movies, of course, were contemporary tales shot in real locations, often the apartments of the actors. The people onscreen were often playing versions of themselves' they spoke and behaved as they did in real life. There was no need to conjure a special language or mode of behavior for them. A period film is different, but Treitz seems not to know that, or not to have the chops to deliver whats needed most likely the latter. In the films first scene, were on a farm in Kentucky in  and two men are speaking with each other. From their initial words on, the actors sound like contemporary guys mouthing dialogue written by someone trying to create something that sounds vaguely  th -centuryish but coming up short. There are other movies that deal with rough-hewn characters caught up in the Civil Wars fringe areas, and notable ones such as Robert Bentons Bad Company, Robby Hensons little-known but terrific Pharaohs Army, and  Ang Lees Ride With the Devil scripted by  James Schamus from Daniel Woodrells novel all begin with finely tuned scripts that, unlike the one by Treitz and  Kate Lyn Sheil, create persuasive, idiomatic versions of a bygone eras modes of speech. Theres artifice aplenty in this kind of writing, of course, and Mumblecore tries to avoid overt artifice. But whats here is artificial in the same ways those films scripts are' its just artifice that inadvertently calls attention to its lack of linguistic skill. The historical setting also accentuates the narratives lacks. The tale starts off focusing on two brothers, foursquare Henry  Timothy Morton and gangly Francis  David Maloney, illiterate but solid-seeming farmers who have a testy, vacillating relationship during the wars early days. Kentucky is a border state where some side with the North, some with the South, but we hear very little about the conflict for the storys first third. Instead, we witness the day to day lives of the two brothers, their problems with farming and credit and their occasional forays in search of female company among the towns better-off families.   Eventually Henry disappears and it emerges hes gone off to fight for the Union. He and Francis, who stayed home, begin writing letters, aided by friends. As a soldier, Henry sees some action, and this is where the films naturalistic aesthetic is really revealed as a self-deluding fraud. The movie wants to show us life as it is? Well, it certainly doesnt show us war as it is. In one scene, Henrys company is seen going into battle, and the scene is played without synchronous sound, much less the godawful cacophony than it would have been in real life. The opening scenes of  Free State of Jones offer a far more vivid and believable account of Civil War combat. War is not hell in Men Go to Battle. Its barely anything, beyond a backdrop behind the noodlings of the characters who wander through or near it. Needless to say, this wastes a great deal of very rich material, denying viewers vivid and authentic accounts not only of the experience of soldiers in this theater of the war, but also of the heated political passions and fiery disagreements that drove families and communities apart in this tortured part of the U.S. Indeed, seldom has a Civil War film made so little of its actual historical context. The movies other area of failing is its acting. The performers here, especially leads Morton and Maloney, are certainly game. But playing period characters requires not just a smart script and expert direction but a certain level of skill going in. The acting here, like too much of the film, ends up registering as unfortunately amateurish. 