Keiichi Haras Miss Hokusai, an adaptation of the  Hinako Sugiura manga series, is an undeniably unique biopic, and not merely because its an animated one. Rather than tell a traditional tale of a famous artist in this case, Katsushika Hokusai, a legendary Japanese painter most well-known for the world-famous The Great Wave it allows us to see him through his daughters eyes, and to do so with a most unusual style. In fact, Hara opens with a series of scenes designed to let you know that this is not a traditional narrative, something he clearly feels reflects his subjects diverse artistic output. Narrated by O-Ei Hokusai, the painters daughter, we see Hokusai painting a giant rendering of an old man, followed by him painting two sparrows on a grain of rice. His art knows no physical boundaries. Then, as O-Ei crosses a gigantic bridge in Edo in the Summer of , we hear hard rock guitar riffs on the soundtrack. An appropriate response is confusion.  Sadly, this striking opening isnt really fulfilled upon. Over the next  minutes, Miss Hokusai weaves a defiantly episodic patchwork quilt of moments in Hokusais life. Likely an impact of the source material, Miss Hokusai is structured in a way thats designed to work better as a series of short stories than a feature film. The pace of the film gets clunky rather quickly when it needs to be lyrical in order to work. And Miss Hokusai is remarkably talky. Its filled with conversations about other artists of the period and discussions of the philosophy of art. As much as I wanted to be transported to the world of Miss Hokusai, it felt more like an analytical examination of a period and one of its most artistic voices, and I could never quite engage with that aspect of it.   Between the lengthy dialogue scenes, there are moments of visual beauty. I like the way Hara uses natural light from the dim glow of a lantern to the vibrant orange of a sunset. And some of the wide shots are breathtaking, capturing Edo, which would become Tokyo, as a bustling, moving, happening city, even two centuries ago. And there are episodes within Miss Hokusai that are effective as short films on their own. In the films best segment, Hokusai discusses feeling one night like his hands were leaving his body, traveling the world without him but still attached back to their owner, almost like an out-of-body experience. The parallel between this approach to art tactile and experiential and his daughters, which is more intellectual and technique-based, is interesting, but, like so much of Miss Hokusai, underdeveloped.   Miss Hokusai might have been more effective if it had stuck to one tone within its episodic structure, or more fluidly moved from one to another. But a segment like the one above, clearly designed to raise a talking point about artistic approach, might be followed by one of many with O-Eis blind, sick younger sister O-Nao, during which the film descends into sentimentality. The idea that O-Naos father, while painting art that would resonate centuries later, basically ignored his sick child, is a fascinating one but its better served by a documentary than episodically within an animated film.    While theres something undeniably ambitious about approaching the life of an artist in a way thats designed to reflect his breadth of skills, and to even question the origins and purpose of art while doing so, theres still a basic filmmaking pacing thats lacking in Miss Hokusai. It feels much longer than its  minutes, and I left it feeling like I didnt really learn much about its title character or her father.    