Depressingly regressive and borderline dangerous, "Moms Night Out" peddles archaic notions of gender roles in the name of wacky laughs. But it also wants to be "About Something." It wants to inspire as well as entertain. Its " The Hangover" aimed at Christian audiences, and if that sounds like an impossible prospect, well, thats because it is. "Moms Night Out" is just as afraid to let loose as its characters are. Then again, the people who populate this picture are more like clichd, cardboard types: the frazzled, stay-at-home mom' the well-meaning, absent dad' the flighty best friend' the snooty restaurant hostess. Why must faith-based offerings be so lame and worst of all so out of touch with reality?  Basically, the moral of the story is: Dont go out. Because if you do, all hell will break loose or rather, all heck.  Thats the lesson Allyson  Sarah Drew of Greys Anatomy learns the hard and unfunny way. A married, suburban mother of three whose husband  Sean Astin is usually away on business trips, Allyson struggles to find the time and inspiration to be a mommy blogger, but shes usually chasing after her kids, cleaning up their messes or prying their heads out of toilets when they get stuck. Dont ask its a running bit. She also happens to be a control freak whos obsessive about cleanliness, which is a difficult thing to be when youre a parent. The perky Drew would probably be much more likable with better material. Directors Andrew and  Jon Erwin, working from a script by Jon Erwin and  Andrea Gyertson Nasfell, often depict the chaos of Allysons daily life in sitcom-y fashion with words that pop up on screen, cutesy little graphics and lots of manic, overly explanatory narration. We get it, shes stressed out. And at first, Moms Night Out reveals a recognizable nugget of truth: that women are hard on themselves and have unrealistic expectations about being all things to all people at all times. Note to self. Then it takes that nugget, wraps it up and smothers it in shrill, zany packaging.  In desperate need of some me time, Allyson dares to arrange a night out with two equally overwhelmed mothers: her childhood best friend, the dizzy Izzy Andrea  Logan White, and the proper preachers wife, Sondra  Patricia Heaton, whos also a producer on the film. I say dares because going out means leaving the children in the care of their husbands, who are totally incompetent. Allysons husband would rather play video games, and Izzys husband  Robert Amaya is actively afraid of their twins.    And he doesnt even know yet that she has another baby on the way. Izzy takes a pregnancy test on the way out the door for this much-anticipated, much-needed girls night as one would and is shocked to learn that its positive. My first thought was: Oh, shes panicking because its going to be obvious shes expecting when she doesnt order a drink at dinner. But we dont even get that far. We barely get past sodas at the bowling alley. Its possible to be a good Christian and still have a glass of wine from time to time, yes?  Anyway, the three women do indeed find themselves in trouble not because theyve done anything wrong, but because they keep trying to do something right. Allysons sister-in-law, Bridget  Abbie Cobb, has left her own baby with his father for the night to take a part-time job. Or so she thinks. Tracking down the infants whereabouts sends the ladies on a frenzied tour of their unnamed town the film was shot in Birmingham, Alabama. This includes a stop to a tattoo parlor which, in their sheltered minds, is the most dangerous place on Earth, a police chase involving a cab and a minivan, a run-in with a biker gang and, eventually, jail. None of this is as exciting as it sounds. The antics are all dismally tame. For the most part, though, Moms Night Out surprisingly isn't too preachy. The church is a natural part of these womens lives how they know each other, where their kids socialize, what they talk about in casual conversation. The potentially disastrous events depicted in Moms Night Out dont represent a crisis of faith so much as a reminder of its purpose.  The closest we get to a sermon comes from an unlikely source: country star  Trace Adkins as a biker with a heart of gold named Bones. With his hulking frame and gravelly voice, hes actually the best part of the movie, oddly enough. But the ultimate message here is unmistakable, regardless of your religious beliefs: A womans place is in the home, not out on the town.   