Drop Jim Cramer into  Network and you have Money Monster and yet the result never ends up being quite as thrilling or thought-provoking as that premise sounds. Jodie Foster has directed a real-time drama thats lean, efficient and benefits from the enormous charisma of  George Clooney in the starring role as a slick, smug financial pundit. And in a bit of an Oceans Eleven reunion, Clooney totally unsurprisingly has an easy, snappy chemistry with  Julia Roberts as his longtime directorvoice of reason. But this time, theyre not the ones stealing the money' rather, they end up feeling the repercussions of a massive swindle. The films rage is unmistakable. And yet, despite its present-day setting, it feels rather retro as if Money Monster just narrowly missed the window for maximum relevance where movies like  The Big Short and   Homes thrived. Its easy to imagine Clooneys Lee Gates scheming and preening as he presides over the airwaves at a CNBC-style cable channel, though. The script from  Jamie Linden and  Alan DiFiore amp'  Jim Kouf definitely gets the live television details right the buzzing energy, the gallows humor, the technical elements. Like Cramer on his signature show  Mad Money, Lee makes potentially dry stock talk lively with gimmicky graphics, sound effects and a generally bombastic personality. The great cinematographer  Matthew Libatique who, coincidentally, also shot  Spike Lees  Inside Man, which covered similar territory and featured a brilliant Foster performance captures it all with intimacy and verve. Lee may or may not truly care about the stocks and funds he promotes' he may or may not even be all that knowledgeable. But Clooney being Clooney, he makes this soulless shell of a man thoroughly engaging' Roberts sharp and serene Patty Fenn,alwaysthe smartest person in the room, keeps him in check. The actual time they spend on-screen together is minimal hes mainly on set, shes mainly in the booth but the connection between these two longtime friends and co-stars still crackles. But a pretty typical day for the anchor and crew gets shattered when a delivery man walks onto the stage with a gun and a vest full of explosives hes fashioned specifically for Lee. Jack OConnells Kyle Budwell lost everything he had , when he invested in a stock Lee swore was a sure thing. The stocks value plummeted when  million disappeared overnight, supposedly the result of a glitch in an algorithm. Now, the companys chief executive officer  Dominic West is somewhere on his private jet and unavailable to answer the tough questions, leaving his spokeswoman  Caitriona Balfe to face the cameras and struggle to stay on message. Foster slowly, steadily builds tension as Lee and Patty work together to keep Budwell calm and comply with his demands on live television. The fact that the action takes place pretty much entirely within the confines of the studio for the first two-thirds of the film greatly enhances the feeling of claustrophobia. At the same time, Money Monster keeps us on our toes with a couple of dramatic moments that dont necessarily turn out the way we might expect. And while theres little room for sentimentality in this high-stakes world, longtime character actor  Lenny Venito provides a welcome source of warmth as a veteran cameraman who sticks by Lees side, no matter what.   Money Monster zips by while it stays in the studio. When it ventures out into the streets of lower Manhattan in the third act, though, it loses its way. Ironically, the film gets loose and meanders just as it should be reaching a tight, tense climax. A hostage situation turns into a circus' what was once dramatic is now just plain silly. Efforts to humanize the blue-collar attacker feel like too little, too late and the inconsistent New York accent from OConnell, the British star of  Unbroken, doesnt help his cause. Ultimately, the film registers less as an indictment of widespread financial corruption than as a shallow exploration of one mans greed. But briefly, when its at its peak value somewhere in the middle, Money Monster is a solid bet. 