Slow-burn horror-thriller "Most Beautiful Island" is sadly most frustrating when its creators are slowing down long enough to make you care about Luciana writerdirector  Ana Asensio, a Spanish immigrant living in New York City. Asensio spends a lot of time trying to make viewersappreciatethe day-to-day headaches, and upsets that lead Luciana to a shady party, where she's promised ,just forstanding around, and looking attractive. But many of the scenes that contextualize Luciana's desperation are so shrill, and so dramatically threadbarethat one can't help but feel like you're being confrontedby a homeless person whowon't take no for an answer. Luciana is a sympathetic character, so denyingher humanity feels tacky. But, until her plightbecomes emotionallyengaging during the film's creepy finale - minutes, watching"Most Beautiful Island" is an unproductively unpleasant experience.   To be clear: Asensio is not a lesser filmmaker for trying so hard to get viewers to like Luciana. Rather, the way that she depicts Luciana's pre-horror-party life is regrettably wearisome. It's a perfect storm of flat line-readings, blunt dialogue, and monotonously exhausting pre-party scenes. Eventually, Istopped feeling bad for not caring enoughabout Luciana's plight, and started waiting for Asensio's story to either end, or get more interesting. Thankfully, the latter happens before the former can.  So, yes, Luciana does eventuallyattend a sketchy party,because sheneedsmoney to make ends meet. But until then, we watch her life spiral out of control, and repeatedly hit rock-bottom. BecauseLuciana has no options at this point, so shehas to barrelthrough several nightmarishexperiences, any one of which couldsink someone's day. Sheruns out of money onthe pre-paid phonecard she calls home with. This is after she has a trying phone call with her mother, who begs her to return to Spain, and tries to convince Luciana that people have forgiven her for an unexplained trauma. Still, Luciana presses on. Because her rent is due, as her roommate's passive-aggressive fridge post-it note insists. And Luciana's barely scraping by with her two jobs:costumed mascotfor a fried chicken restaurant, and baby-sitter for two brattychildren. She always runs late for her baby-sitting job, so her two pint-sized charges walk all over her, demanding ice cream, running off, andthreatening to tattle on Luciana.  And through it all, Luciana never has any money. She barelyskates by thanks tothe kindness of strangers, and the eternalpromise that she'll be able to pay themback tomorrow . Which, again, is theoretically sympathetic. But after a certain point, watching "Most Beautiful Island"really does grind away at you.  The storyteller's manner of address is assaultive, and lifeless. Asensio won't take no for an answer, and she just keepspiling on scenes that demand viewers not onlyunderstand her character'sdilemma, but appreciate that there are very real conditions that could lead an unattached femaleimmigrant to agree to attend a creepy party in an undisclosed basement.There are many warning signs that Lucianawillfully ignores, particularly the fact that fellow chicken mascot Olga  Natasha Romanova does not provide many details when she offers to hook Luciana up with this seeminglyeasy, one-off gig. But Luciana has to go, and viewers must understand that.     Still, Asensio puts words in her character's mouth that a more experienced filmmaker wouldn't, like when Luciana wanly laments to Olga that "I'm sick of the possibilities." And there are several scene that just feel too long, and pushy, like theprotracted scenewhere Luciana struggles to find the first mysterious location where she thinks the party is being held, only to be ferried to another location,get into a low-key altercation with a cabby, and thenfinallyarrive at the creepy basement party. There's also theoverlong scene whereAsensio bullies, pleads, and screams at a pair of childrenbecause, again, shehas no other options. These aresympathetic problems. But Asensiogracelessly pelts viewers with her character'sproblems, and demands that we passivelyacceptthe horror of this experience.  Thankfully, the creepy party that Luciana attends is actuallycreepy. Its industrialwine cellardungeonvibe is relatively quiet, and therefore atmospheric enough that youwant tolikeLuciana again.Your imagination starts to work overtime, asking questions likeWhy are none of the other party guests talking to each other,Why are guests being filed into a sealed room one-by-one,andWhat's behind thatdoor that's makingpaid guests look like they just survived a great ordeal? The answers to these questions areengaging, albeit in a pulpy, over-the-top way. I wish Asensio went further over-the-top, but she stages herparty scenes so well that I was drawn in regardless."MostBeautifulIsland" may take a while to get going, but once it does, you'll be eager to see whatAsensio does next. 