Back in the s,  Rainer Werner Fassbinder described a number of his films as comprising the basis of a projected moral history of modern Germany unfortunately he didnt live to complete it. A number of works by Taiwans  Hou Hsiao-hsien seem to be dedicated to a similar project. In mainland China, the one major filmmaker with kindred ambitions is Jia Zhang-ke. While stalwarts of Chinese cinemas Fifth Generation such as  Zhang Yimou and  Chen Kaige as well as Hou in Taiwan have deviated into making internationally crowd-pleasing, martial arts spectaculars, Jia has kept his eyes closely fixed on Chinese society as it has evolved through a tumultuous period of history. The most lauded of Chinas Sixth Generation filmmakers, Jia has always evinced a confidence and a seriousness of purpose that are on fine display in Mountains May Depart, another intimate journey through history thats as stirring and beautifully nuanced as anything hes made. Though perhaps the greatest of recent Chinese films, it does, however, have a significant drawback that must be acknowledged at the outset. The films story moves its characters through three different time periods, from  to  and then . The first two transpire in China and center on a character played by Jias muse and wife  Zhao Tao, whose performance is truly brilliant and the films emotional linchpin. The third part, which takes place mainly in Australia, finds Zhaos character not entirely absent but sidelined to the point that the movie inevitably suffers. As its time frame might suggest, the thematic center of the new film is the destabilizing impact of market-driven prosperity on China from the s till now. Set, as many earlier Jia films are, in the directors hometown of Fenyang, in northern China, the storys first part which is also the longest starts with the nation celebrating the approach of the year . Its a happy, celebratory time, due not just to the chronological landmark but also the newfound wealth and relative freedoms that have transformed China. When we first see vivacious Shen Tao Zhao, shes in millennial party mode, leading a young dance troupe in an infectious routine set to the Pet Shop Boys version of Go West Jias witty use of international pop music remains a trademark. But the abundance that much of China is enjoying has a problematic romantic corollary for Tao, whos being pursued by two men. The roughly handsome, taciturn Liangzi Liang Jin Dong, a mine worker, never really confesses his feelings but they are obvious enough. His rival, Zhang Jiansheng Zhang Yi, on the other hand, is a glad-handing nouveau-capitalist whos constantly offering gifts and other demonstrations of his affection.   This rich-manpoor-man sentimental dichotomy may sound all too schematic in its symbolism, but it works due to the humanistic detail Jia gives it and the sharp work of the main actors. Although Tao does fall for Zhang who buys the mine where Liangzi works and fires him we never feel that its solely due to the material comforts he offers her, even in a China that still remembers the astringencies of the Cultural Revolution. The young womans heart is mercurial and Zhang also promises the gift that arrives soon after their glitzy wedding: a son, whom the beaming father confidently names Dollar. When the second episode arrives, much has changed. Tao is rich but long separated from Zhang, who lives with another woman and Dollar in Shanghai but has his ever-entrepreneurial eyes now set on Australia. In this section, Tao retains some of her buoyancy but her youthful optimism is tested and tempered by challenges on several fronts: her beloved fathers decline due to age' Liangzis return to Fenyang suffering from a lung ailment due to his work in the mines' and the estrangement she finds in Dollar when he comes for a visit. In the storys final part, were in Australia, where Zhang is wealthy but indolent, bitter and alienated from Dollar now Dong Zijan, who doesnt know what he wants, besides not wanting his dads life, and who falls into a desultory affair with an older female teacher the redoubtable  Sylvia Chang. On paper, this turn in the story no doubt makes good sense. The subject of Chinese people whove been propelled overseas by prosperity is a great one, and right in line with the chronicles Jia has provided till now. Unfortunately, this section of the film proves to be its weakest part, in part because Jia doesnt seem entirely comfortable working in English, but more because the film lacks the powerful emotional focus provided by Tao and the actress playing her.   Always a playful stylist, Jia and cinematographer Yu Lik-wai give each section a different aspect ratio and incorporate other visual indicators of the different eras represented. There are also spurts of the surrealistic touches the director sometimes embeds in a realistic style that appreciates the particularities of landscapes and cities as well as the occasional disruptions and absurdities provided by post-Communist modernity. Whatever Jia shows us and wherever he takes us, were always aware of being in the hands of one of the contemporary worlds great filmmakers. 