Prof. Moriarty is renowned as Sherlock Holmes most notorious archenemy. But the worlds greatest detective grapples with an even more relentless foe in Mr. Holmes, the latest big-screen incarnation of  Arthur Conan Doyles literary creation. His name? Mortality. His game? Inevitability. And the game is definitely afoot in , as the elderly super sleuth attempts to crack some of the mysteries that continue to haunt him at this late stage of his life. There are more than a few clues as to why director  Bill Condon would like to erase the bad taste left by s  The Fifth Estate, his botched attempt to capture the enigma that is WikiLeaks creator Julian Assange as played by another Mr. Holmes,  Benedict Cumberbatch, with this intriguing if only semi-satisfying Sherlockian enterprise. For one, Mr. Holmes provides a perfect chance for a reunion with Ian McKellen, who was Oscar-nominated for his wily and witty work as the original Frankenstein director James Whalein s Gods and Monsters, which won the filmmaker an Academy Award for his adapted screenplay.Mr. Holmes also features one of his stars from s  Kinsey,  Laura Linney, who earned an Oscar nod as the noted sex researchers wife. Here, she dowdies herself down nicely as Holmes often-disapproving housekeeper. Condon does right by both actors again, although the film is at its best as a showcase for the splendid and spell-binding Sir Ian, who has taken on two other pop-cultural icons, Gandalf the wizard and X-Men nemesis Magneto, since they last collaborated. Much like  Woman in Gold, where the glowing presence of  Helen Mirren was compensation enough to sit through a rather spotty enterprise, the -year-old actor donning rivulets of extra wrinkles and a padded aquiline nose overcomes a script with an excess of flashbacks to convince us that we are truly witnessing the one and only Sherlock in his dotage. Not that Holmes, first seen as a -year-old retiree spending his waning twilight years at a picturesque cottage by the sea in the southern part of post-World War II England, isnt attempting to fight back against the infirmities of old age. He has taken up beekeeping as an avocation, partly to gather royal jelly that supposedly wards off forgetfulness. When we first see him, the former private eye is freshly back from a Japan that is still reeling from the effects of the atom bomb after securing a batch of a mysterious restorative herb known as prickly ash. Or, as his disbelieving physician calls it, ashly prick which is as close to bawdy as Mr. Holmes ever gets.   There is a fount of welcome youth to be found on the premises to fill in for the late Dr. Watson, Sherlocks faithful sidekick, in the form of the widowed housekeepers young son. The collusion between a crusty yet still-ticking Sherlock and Roger a tiptop  Milo Parker, whose boyish resilience and innate curiosity is reminiscent of onetime Disney child star Bobby Driscoll as he teaches the lad about both bee farming and the art of detecting is the heart and most compelling part of Mr. Holmes. There is something sadly discomforting in witnessing this genius in decline, his blue eyes going opaque to indicate senior moments and his fading voice expressing deep regret over the past, especially his valuing of logic over emotion. In order to pay Roger back for his services and also prod his own memory, he devotes himself to recalling details of his final and least successful case in story form, which the boy eagerly reads as each page is done. As Holmes scribbles what happened on parchment, we are taken back to , when the husband of a woman named Ann Kelmot  Hattie Morahan hired Holmes to check up on his wifes strange behavior following two miscarriages. The case itself ultimately proves less an involving puzzle for the audience than a lesson for Holmes in humility a state that he has rarely if ever exhibited in his many incarnations, whether in the original tales, Basil Rathbones cinematic version from the s and s or Jeremy Bretts TV portrayal in the s and s. In fact, Condon has some fun with having the elder Holmes head to the theater to check out one of the overwrought B-movies based on Dr. Watsons much-embellished written renderings of his friends exploits. That it is  Nicholas Rowe, who played the title character in s  Young Sherlock Holmes, appearing in the black-and-white picture is a neat trick, indeed.   But then we also must deal with less-interesting flashbacks to Holmes recent foray to Japan, where a local guide  Hiroyuki Sanada helps him find the supposedly rejuvenating plant. This plot strand eventually sets up the films redemptive conclusion but falls somewhat flat. Actually, a certain placidity seeps into too much of the film, even if McKellen is consistently enjoyable and gets a chance to share a nice moment of interplay when a still-dapper Holmes and Kelmot eventually meet on a park bench. But whatever tension exists onscreen primarily is in Sherlocks mind. And, in this movie at least, it is like watching a door oh so slowly being shut.  