This movie begins with a few noncommittal scenic shots of rural England and a man saying in voiceover, Did she? Didnt she? Whos to blame? Hearing this, I thought, Well, thats no Last night I dreamt I went to Manderlay again. Not fair, maybe, but My Cousin Rachel is, like  Alfred Hitchcocks Rebecca, based on a novel by Daphne du Maurier, master of the moody semi-Gothic romantic thriller.   As it happens, du Mauriers novel My Cousin Rachel has an entirely different and hookier opening line: They used to hang men at Four Turnings in the old days. One feature of this movie, written and directed by  Roger Michell, is Im assuming here a new conception of its protagonist, the novels unreliable narrator. His name is Philip, and after wondering whos to blame, he gives a brief accounting of his life. Orphaned, brought up by an adult cousin named Ambrose, sent to school. Philip cops to not having liked books. He cops to not liking much of anything, besides hanging out with Ambrose in a dusty manse whose interior looks like the gatefold sleeve picture of a mid-s Jethro Tull album. Ambrose runs some kind of land-based business he has a lot of workers walking around wielding scythes. Its all very pre-Victorian man-cave like, and Philip insists thats what he likes, but then, oh no, cousin Ambrose falls ill and gets sent to Italy, because thats what you did when you were sick and lived in England. From there Ambrose writes letters detailing his recovery, and the TLC he receives from yet another cousin, a young woman named Rachel. But then comes news of Ambroses death. Philip is both heartbroken and indignant, and blames this Rachel person. To his godfather and estate lawyer, and his daughter Louise, who clearly pines for the young now-master-of-Ambroses-estate, Philip vows revenge. Then Rachel shows up.   And shes played by  Rachel Weisz, so, you know. Nevertheless, the speed with which Philip transforms from would-be avenger to slack jawed google-eyed let me give you all my mothers jewelry dope is kind of astonishing. First he insists that she stay in the mansion, which he and Louise have managed to clean up so its more  Jane Austen than Jethro Tull. Then he gives her access to his accounts. Eventually, he decides to turn over all his worldly goods to her on his  th  birthday. In return, he wants  well, hes not quite so indelicate as to articulate it.   This is an arguably juicy narrative, especially when intercepted letters and other items start to cast suspicions on the seemingly pure-and-true Rachel, and after Philip contracts a nasty virus that could in fact be related to the herbal tisanes that Rachel concocts and practically force-feeds the fellow. But My Cousin Rachel is an impossibly turgid film. From the moment it opens, its constantly indicating menace and heightened emotion, but never doing anything to genuinely evoke it.  Rael Jones music is the main culprit here, but the films most blatant disaster is  Sam Claflins performance as Philip. From the first minute Claflin presents the character as a kind of period bro, albeit one whose default mode of dealing with his environment is a sneering entitled truculence. The characters ingenuousness is meant as a kind of virtue, at least I think it is, but Claflins sneering, furniture-smashing, and banality make Philip impossible to care about. As for Weisz, shes not given much to do besides be tender andor affronted' the plot, such as its been adapted for this film, hinges on her character being kind of unknowable, so were left with a good-looking cipher, through no actual fault of Weiszs. And Michells direction is both overstated and incoherent. Plot threads are inexplicably left to hang, only to be picked up at a later point when the viewer has pretty much been obliged to move past them. Focus tricks in individual shots, and unwarranted camera movements meant to create a sense of unease merely elicit the response whats THAT about? Michell has made watchable films in the past you may like  Notting Hill' I was more partial to Venus but this literally looks like a picture made by someone whos forgotten how to direct.   Incidentally, the du Maurier novel was made into a picture years ago, with Olivia de Havilland in the title role and a young  Richard Burton as Philip. Big shoes to fill, but I honestly dont even think that was an issue the movie is not well-remembered today except by devoted fans of its stars in the creation of this movie. One of the problems with this My Cousin Rachel is that its hard to come up with any issue or reason relative to its creation, Im afraid.   