Here is the thing about " Neighbors," a hard-R hybrid of "Animal House" and a sort-of sequel to "Knocked Up" in which a Gen X couple with an infant daughter and a hefty mortgage declares war on the rowdy Gen Y frat boys who move in next door: You will laugh. Maybe not nearly as much as during " The -Year-Old Virgin" or " Superbad" but there is a steady stream of inducements to at least chuckle with regularity. Most of these lewd dollops of humor rely on what we will refer to as a matter of decorum as Richard jokes, ranging from artisanal dildos to the miracle of an instant erection.  You may even applaud, as my audience did, when  Rose Byrne as mother and wife Kelly, who desperately needs a night out and is shockingly adept at  cursing proves her comedic prowess in " Bridesmaids" was no fluke. With almost scary zeal, she summons her fulsome wiles to seduce both a girl and a guy into hooking up after lubricating their libidos with several rounds of shots.  You will also groan at some of the more inappropriate moments, such as  the unfortunate use of the N word as well as an ill-advised joke about  baby HIV. Also annoying is the lack of any fully developed women beyond  Byrne and  Lisa Kudrow as a fed-up college dean. The female students  fluttering by all seem to dress as if they were in a Victorias Secret  fashion show. And note to the two male screenwriters,  Andrew J. Cohen  and Brendan OBrien: Breast-feeding is not as amusing as you think it  is. As  for the plot, its a grass-is-always-greener scenario but with plenty  of weed, too. The twist is, both sides want what the other one has. For  cubicle drone Mac  Seth Rogen, its a chance to revisit his  responsibility-free past. For party major Teddy  Zac Efron, its a  possible future beyond hot-tub bacchanals and hazing underclassmen.  They are less foils and more fun-house reflections of one another, and  that is rather deep for this kind of id-driven tomfoolery.  Much  like  Nicholas Stollers previous directorial efforts, "Forgetting Sarah  Marshall" and "Get Him to the Greek," "Neighbors" is messily pasted together  with improvised bits and plot threads that dangle. I miss the days when  comedy scripts were lovingly honed, with dialogue that sang not  stuttered. But at least Stoller manages to avoid many of the clichs of  the raunchy bromance genre. Still, it makes no sense that no one else on  the block complains that the Greeks blare music and set off fireworks  at all hours.  But  what is most surprising about this latest effort from graduates of the  Judd Apatow Clown Academy for Emotionally Stunted Males is that Efron  gives his most mature and nuanced post-"High School Musical" performance  yet as the alpha stud of Delta Psi. Not that his character is one  note. Instead, like a latter-day Eddie Haskell but with killer abs, he  easily slips from sincere and reassuring to sneaky and underhanded when  counter-attacks are called for. You actually feel his regret when it  finally dawns on him that maybe he should have gone to class once in a  while.    Meanwhile,  Rogen a producer along with his usual cohort,  Evan Goldberg has  devolved back into his standard pothead schlub routine after taking a  stretch with more dramatic work in " Take This Waltz" and " " as well as  playing straight man to  Barbra Streisand in "The Guilt Trip." The problem  is "Neighbors" will likely gross more at the box office than all those  three films combined. Who would have predicted that  Jonah Hill the  Boo-Boo to Rogens Yogi Bear would be the one to end up with two Oscar  nominations? A  sub-strata of fresh faces provides able support, including  Dave Franco  younger brother of James as Pete, Teddys sharper second-in-command'  Craig Roberts " Submarine" as a frat recruit known as Assjuice' and  standup comic  Hannibal Buress as a laid back police officer. And how long  can  Christopher Mintz-Plasse get away with a resume full of variations  on his McLovin character? But  no one holds the screen like Mac and Kellys big-eyed darling of a  daughter, played by twins Elise and Zoey Vargas. Universal, the studio  behind "Neighbors," may want to consider putting her outtakes online  judging by the chorus of awws heard whenever she shows up.  A  coda before the end credits that finds Mac and Teddy connecting  shirtlessly outside an Abercrombie amp' Fitch provides welcome closure.  Be forewarned, however: If this movie becomes popular, car airbags are  destined to become the new whoopee cushions. 