This sensitive, competently crafted indie picture a genuinely regional film, it would appear, shot in Ohio and set up through a production company based in Grand Rapids, Michigan is a romance thats aiming to play David against this weeks ostensible date-movie Goliath, the considerably not hearts-and-flowers-redolent Fifty Shades Of Grey. Written, directed by, and starring  Rik Swartzwelder, Old Fashioned kind of wears its premise on its title. Spunky sweet, and smart Amber  Elizabeth Roberts runs out of gas in the middle of a picture-perfect town in which Clay Swartzwelder hones various crafts at an antique store called, yep, Old Fashioned. Ambers resolve, such as it was, was to drive until she ran out of gas and set up housekeeping wherever that happened to be. Clay helps her set up in a new quaintly furnished apartment but wont go through the screen door outside. He has made a vow, he tells Amber: he wont be alone in a room with a woman who isnt his wife. Amber finds this odd. She finds it odder when she learns hes not married.  Clays back-story is revealed in dribs and drabs: this is not quite  The -Year-Old Virgin played straight. The hero was not just a collegiate ladies man but a bit of a Joe Francis type as well, producing salacious videos. Then he changed. You found Jesus? Amber asks him. More likehe found me, Clay responds. So, yes, this Fifty Shades-counter-programming isnt kidding around about being counter-programming. But I would not necessarily characterize this effort as a Christian movie, not that theres anything wrong with that. Swartzwelder does a very thorough and not unbalanced job of portraying Christian characters trying to function in a social milieu that discourages values such as chastity, modesty, and so on. The movie tries hard not to be overtly prudish about its point of view, and in many respects it succeeds I didnt even notice until after it was over that it had no swearing in its dialogue. Once Clay explains his chaste theory of courtship to Amber, and Amber agrees to make a go of it, Old Fashioned also has no problem owning up to the fact that Clays quest to be a decent person is in fact more than a little dogmatic. Hes depicted as defensive and even a little hostile in terms of the ways he stands up for his beliefs. Ambers more conventionally free-spirited, but within that context shes got more sense than Clay, as does Clays adorable wise aunt Zella  Dorothy Silver. Near the climax of the picture, when Amber and Clay argue about the idea of forgiveness, Clay sniffs You make it sound so easy, and Amber shoots him down good with You make it sound impossible. Its incredibly rare to see an American movie with a Christian perspective thats more invested in philosophizing and empathizing than in eschatological pandering, and for that alone Old Fashioned deserves commendation. The movies also very well acted and beautifully shot. However, Swartzwelder does tend to lay things on a little thick. Theres a scene in which a character gets a poster for the  Frank Capra film Meet  John Doe as a present, which is all well and good, but then the viewer is subjected to a reprise of Gary Coopers climactic speech at the end of the film along with a few sensitive dissolves of small-town-America imagery. One of the jarring voices of modernity is a local radio DJ whose show apparently consists entirely of misogynist rants' you know, most local radio stations, even the most talk-oriented, do provide weather reports every now and then. I mentioned the cinematography before' its by David George, and its lovely, but every now and again Swartzwelder and his editors string together several of said images for interludes that could be characterized as Malick-lite. This speaks, finally, to the movies most substantial flaw, which is that with respect to pacing, Swartzwelder, going for thoughtful, instead achieves glacial. A romance wants to sweep viewers up, not bog them down. Still, Old Fashioned is both unusual and intelligent enough that, despite it not being entirely MY cup of tea, Im hoping that itll succeed at doing at least a little more than addressing the converted. 