"One More Time" begins with a rather inspired kind of fake out. A young man and a young woman, in a clinch after what was probably an inebriated pick-up, are at the mans place. The man puts on a vinyl LP, which denotes what it denotes, and what comes from the hi-fi is an old-style crooner singing The barman and I are on very good terms   And the woman demands he turn it off and put something else on. Which the man does.  Smart man. The woman, the viewer learns in the subsequent frantic morning-after scene, is a bedraggled but still fetching  Amber Heard, who runs out of nameless guys apartment and staggers into a recording session. Nothing fancy: shes part of a girl group laying down radio station jingles. But shes clearly talented. And struggling, as the next scene shows her packing up and leaving an apartment from which shes been evicted.  Heards character, named Jude, drives out to what seems to be a pretty sweet setup: a sprawling house in the Hamptons owned by her dad, Paul Lombard  Christopher Walken who used to be a big crooner in the Tony Bennett mode. While retired, he still dreams of the spotlight, not just for reasons of ego but on account of what his ego demands. As cozy as his house is, he bitches that its in the slums of the Hamptons, not even ON the beach. Paul wants to drive his latest comeback with his first songwriting effort, a piece of sub-Cole-Porter doggerel that opens If Id been born in HindustanId reincarnate like the Hindus can. As it happens the Hamptons house is crowded with other conflicts. Judes younger sister Korinne  Kelli Garner is married to Tim  Hamish Linklater, a onetime ex of Judes' they have a difficult young son. In a manner thats somewhat typical of these setups, Walkens character is on occasion seen instructing the boy in how to be inappropriate. Pauls also on his fifth or maybe sixth wife,  Ann Magnusons Lucille, whos disliked by pretty much everybody but Paul. And Jude herself, struggling with booze, a surly attitude, a married lover and big, big daddy issues that daddy himself only ever makes worse, is a spectacular hot mess on her own. The father-daughter sparring is pretty funny' after Paul disparages Jude for her work in a post-punk trio whose name should probably not be reproduced here, Jude shoots back, I notice your contempt for our music didnt stop you from banging our drummer. It doesnt take long to put the two-and-two together' Jude cant stand to hear that barman song not because of her own alcoholism, but because of the guy whos singing it.  The whole cast which also includes  Oliver Platt as a simpatico family solicitor sinks its teeth into the material, which is reasonably meaty. While Garners character keeps comparing turns of events to something out of Mamet, the family dynamics recall Chekhov if not ONeill. This movie doesnt plumb to the depths of the latter or reach the heights of the former, but its not nothing. The depiction of the music scene milieus is more convincing than is customary interestingly, Garner, whose character is referred to as the family member without musical talent, also served as one of the guitar coaches for the movies singing-and-playing performers, the songs are decent the composer is longtime veteran of New York cabaret  Joe McGinty, and the movies denouement is convincingly low-key.   