Paddington, a live-actionCGI-animated take on the tales of the beloved stuffed bear, pulls off a pretty tricky balancing act. It manages to be both old-fashioned and high-tech. It remains faithful to the characters roots while also placing him firmly within a contemporary setting. Its charmingly funny and shamelessly punny. This is a movie in which the GPS instructs a driver to bear left during a car chase, and whaddya know  theres a bear on the left. But amid the word play and the antics and the international adventures, Paddington also functions as a rather stealthy allegory about immigration. Which, obviously, is what you want in a kids movie. Actually, writer-director  Paul King approaches this fraught topic in a way that wont seem too heavy-handed for adults, yet might even register with the kids in the audience. The words: Please look after this bear. Thank you, handwritten on a paper tag tied around the neck of our diminutive, furry hero, tug with an added poignancy from this perspective. Yet Paddington, as a whole, mostly remains light on its paws  er, feet. Kings filmoffers anorigin story for the marmalade-obsessed bear from  Michael Bonds childrens books. When we first meetPaddingtonvoiced sweetly by  Ben Whishaw with some light touches reminiscent of  Robin Williams, hes living in Darkest Peru with his aunt and uncle  Imelda Staunton and  Michael Gambon. Years earlier, a British explorer had visited and was amazed to discover the existence of such brilliant, talking bears. Now, when it comes time for youngPaddingtonto make his own way in the world, his aunt sends him to London, since the explorer promised that theyd always be welcome there. So off he goes, wearing his signature, floppy red hat and carrying plenty of his favorite food to last him throughout the long boat journey. But when he arrives in London, not only are people not amazed to meet awalking,talking bear, they rudely dismiss his genuinely friendly attempts to connect. Only the Brown family, passing by on the platform atPaddingtonStation  namely, the open-minded Mrs. Brown  Sally Hawkins  dares to show this homeless, disheveled creature any kindness. Thankfully, she also acknowledges what a marvel he is in his verbosity so we can all just get on with the movie. The other family members  uptight Mr. Brown  Hugh Bonneville, daughter Judy Madeleine Harris and son Jonathan  Samuel Joslin  regard him with varying degrees of skepticism. After some clumsy and calamitous antics while adjusting to life in proper civilization, some of which are more amusing than others,Paddingtonseems to settle in and find a rhythm. He maintains a plucky disposition, even though his homesickness is palpable. As in  Ted, the CGI effects here are seamless' the tiny toy is soft and tactile and beautifully detailed, with evocative facial gestures which help createa surprising emotional connection.Paddingtonalso finds himself in a surprising amount of serious danger, which might be frightening for the youngest audience members. Spoiler alert: Hes going to be OK.   While the humor can be broad as in  Nicole Kidmans ruthlessly driven taxidermist in borderline-dominatrix gear and even a little crass as in some literal toilet humor whenPaddingtonhas trouble in the loo, Paddington also features some lovely and even delicate imagery. King is straight-up stealing from  Wes Anderson when he depicts the Browns tall, narrow home as a dollhouse that opens up to reveal the family members going about their business in various rooms. And a mural of a tree painted on the wall of the Browns curved staircase repeatedly changes to reflect the mood of the film. Mostly  and appropriately  its joyfully blossoming. 