Theres no doubt that Papa: Hemingway in Cuba seemed promising on paper. The script was written by  Denne Bart Petitclerc and was based on his own experiences with  Ernest Hemingway, whom he befriended as a young journalist. Petitclerc passed away a decade ago, and he wouldve been thrilled to learn that the long belated project would become the first Hollywood film shot in Cuba since , and that various scenes would be shot in the locations where Hemingway once resided. Even  Mariel Hemingway, the writers granddaughter, turns up in an all-too-brief cameo. These behind-the-scenes factoids are the most interesting aspects of the film and, regrettably, the only interesting aspects, as well. Likening Papa to a made-for-TV movie would be inaccurate, considering how cinematic TV has become in recent years, and how many programs are oftentimes superior to typical theatrical offerings look no further than this years inaugural season of American Crime Story for sufficient proof. Papa is merely cinema at its dullest, a perfunctory assemblage of biographical bullet points in which characters explain their lives rather than live them. Petitclercs fictionalized self is inexplicably renamed Ed Myers and played by  Giovanni Ribisi in a performance so wooden, he occasionally resembles the wax dummy of  Joseph Cotten. Myers owes his entire career to Hemingway, and has obsessed over crafting the perfect letter to his hero. When his girlfriend, Debbie  Minka Kelly, secretly mails the letter, Hemingway is so impressed with it that he calls Myers and invites him on a fishing trip. The fact that we never see the contents of the letter is a prime example of how the storytelling continuously keeps us at arms length, never allowing us to fully understand the bond that developed between these men. Rather than pause for a few beats that would allow Myers and Hemingway to feel each other out during their initial encounter, the film cuts abruptly to a comedic fishing sequence that is punctuated with a punchline delivered by Hemingway.  Adrian Sparks does all he can with a role comprised of either wise platitudes or self-destructive outbursts. Take a fleeting glimpse at any given shot of Ribisi and Sparks aboard a boat, and youd swear you were looking at  Roy Scheider and  Robert Shaw in  Jaws albeit without a shark, alas. Sparks growls his lines with a campy surliness in scenes where hes required to be a prick, and then turns on a dime to a paternal warmth when conversing with the kid. At age , Ribisi lacks the boyish qualities needed to be regarded as a kid, and its worth noting that Petitclerc was in his s during the events depicted here. A series of forced chuckles and bare bottoms are utilized to suggest a sense of intimacy among the characters, but when it comes to delving into their relationships, the script remains at surface level. Its clear that Petitclercs draft was in need of a rewrite. Peter Greenaways  Eisenstein in Guanajuato may have fallen short as a biopic, but as a frank portrayal of a mans sexual awakening, it was vividly realized and wholly memorable. Theres not a single frame of Papa: Hemingway in Cuba that is guaranteed to linger long in the memory. The director here is  Bob Yari, who has found great success as a producer of terrific films such as  Thumbsucker, The Painted Veil and  Nothing But the Truth. This is his first directorial credit since s Mind Games, and on the basis of this picture, he should stick to producing. The film is not incompetent per se, aside from the truly awful sound design on the screener that I viewed hopefully these errors will be cleaned up in subsequent prints. Dueling ambiences were clashing every time the characters opened their mouths, but more importantly, what they had to say just wasnt very interesting. Heres a film about one of the greatest writers in history that reduces the iconic mans mind to the canned insights of a fortune cookie. In what shouldve been a compelling scene, Hemingway opens up to Myers about an act of infidelity that has haunted him throughout the years. Make a decision carefully, he cautions Myers. Consider every consequence. Contrast these generic declarations with  Jason Robards shattering monologue in  Magnolia, which recounts similar wounds with a rambling tone and naturalistic poetry that feels like it was ripped directly from the dying mans soul.   Jason Isaacs once told me that no actor, however good, can make a bad script work, and I kept being reminded of his words while watching Papa. Faced with stilted dialogue, Sparks and  Joely Richardson as Hemingways wife, Mary overact in order to compensate. Both of these people are very good actors, and its painful to watch them wrestle with subpar material. The best scene, by far, is the only one that hints at Hemingways genius. In order to illustrate the power of less, Hemingway writes a fully realized story in only six words: For sale: baby shoes, never worn. Thats a great line, though in the case of Petitclercs shallow characterizations, less is definitely less. 