Its lonely out in space,  Elton John was able to observe as far back as . Jim Preston, the character played by  Chris Pratt in Passengers, learns this truth in a hard way. Jim is in a hibernation pod on the spaceship Avalon, headed from Earth to a colony planet called Homestead II, when the ship which looks like a hybrid of a couple of crafts from  : A Space Odyssey embraced by a helix goes through a meteor shower. This jars the craft, and causes his hibernation pod to open. A little while after awakening, and enjoying the amenities of the giant ship it carries , passengers to help colonize the new world, and is fully stocked for a four-month period during which the sleepers are awake to get acclimated to their soon-to-be-home he realizes something terrible has happened. He was awakened after only  years in space, and the Avalon wont get to Homestead II for another  years.    This freaks Jim out a bit. He does have one friend on the ship, an android bartender, Arthur, played by  Michael Sheen. But Jim, an engineer, is not particularly bookish had his character been more like that of  Burgess Meredith in that Twilight Zone episode about the last man on Earth and a library, we would not have a movie here so he runs out of high-tech things to amuse himself with over the course of a year. He drinks too much. Grows a beard. Or, rather, Pratt is fitted with a very unconvincing beard, full  Kurt Russell in The Thing, and it doesnt suit the actor, at all. And then he develops a crush on another sleeper, one who looks just like  Jennifer Lawrence, and is played, appropriately enough, by Jennifer Lawrence. He learns about her her name is Aurora Lane, shes a writer, nobody in her life has ever noticed that her name sounds like that of a thoroughfare dreams about her, and eventually makes a very ill-advised decision. He wakes her up.   He makes it look like an accident, he commiserates with her as she freaks out, and he cultivates their friendship. As Humbert Humbert once noted of a protg of his, you see, she had absolutely nowhere else to go. Nevertheless, the movie is a little coy about developing their romance. But then again, the movie is always a little coy where its customary to be a little coy, just as it hits the most predictable beats while hammering its way to a conclusion thats as egregiously contrived and corny as it is predictable.   This movie is directed by  Morten Tyldum, who made s prestige picture  The Imitation Game, and its direction is even more dutiful and personality-free than that of the Alan Turing biopic. The movie has a remarkably lumbering pace. The clich-laden script during one conversation with Aurora, Jim says Cant slogans be true? which I reckon must be something screenwriter  Jon Spaihts has asked in his own actual life demands, of course, that Aurora learn of Jims deception. She does, and this was the point in the film when I felt compelled to look at my watch, and I was shocked to see we were only an hour into this -minute opus.    Despite their individual charms as performers, Pratt and Lawrence have very questionable chemistry. No matter how buff Pratt gets, his performing mode has an ineradicable which way did he go, George? haplessness to it, but that haplessness has some entitled bro notes as well. This makes Jims heinous action You murdered me, an indignant Aurora screams at him, and shes completely right play even more despicably than had Jim been played by any actor with a genuinely creepy aura.   It gets worse. As their romance was blossoming, the ships systems had, unbeknownst to them, been failing. Things get really bad just as another figure, a casting choice that Id like to think was a tribute to Paul W.A. Andersons  Event Horizon but is probably just a coincidence, turns up to give some advice on fixing the crafts nuclear core, and other stuff. Were stranded on a sinking ship, Aurora observes, but the pair engages in all manner of Mr. Fix It derring do, complete with explosive bolts flying around and various sacrifices being proposed, made, and then rescinded by filmmakers committed to nothing more than letting Aurora and Jim have the very best make-up sex ever.   The movies production design is polished to the point of looking chintzy, and the special effects well, lets just say as elaborate as the movies zero-gravity sequence is it involves an entire swimming pools water rising out of its enclosure, wowie-zowie, it reminded me of how much better  did it. And Im not even going to discuss, in detail at least, the elephant in the ideological room that Passengers inhabits, which is its spectacular sexism. The coeval to which is the movies sadistic requirement that Lawrences character swallow whats been done to her by way of Pratts character proving himself worthy. Even if you believe in forgiveness, the way this movie stacks the deck to get to that place is, well, unforgivable.  