The scene-stealing penguins from the  Madagascar franchise get their own movie in the appropriately titled Penguins of Madagascar.  One would think a little of these crazy creatures would go a long way. And indeed, this family-friendly animated comedy from co-directors Eric Darnell and  Simon J. Smith is predicated on a single joke: the idea that these overconfident penguins who fancy themselves as super spies are completely bumbling and inept, yet they manage to wriggle out of every tricky situation not only to survive but thrive and save the day.  But the pacing is so zany, the jokes are so rapid-fire and the sight gags are so inspired that its impossible not to get caught up in the infectious energy of it all. The script credited to  John Aboud,  Michael Colton and  Brandon Sawyer finds enough avenues into that one joke to make the premise seem, if not consistently fresh, at least enjoyable. And the formidable voice cast, featuring  John Malkovich and the ubiquitous  Benedict Cumberbatch, takes this silly work absolutely seriously, and thats one of the most amusing bits of all. Penguins of Madagascar serves as both an origin story and a spin-off, as it follows these adorable animals on an adventure of their own. The zoo animals from the original series, voiced by  Ben Stiller,  Chris Rock, David Schwimmer and  Jada Pinkett Smith, are nowhere to be found. We begin in Antarctica, where a long line of penguins is waddling across the merciless, snowy terrain to nowhere, because as even they acknowledge theyre not allowed to think for themselves. This is just what they do and what the documentary crews expect them to do, in a knowing jab at the over-saturation of penguin-related properties over the past decade or so.  Once the familiar, raspy tones of  Werner Herzogs narration kick in, describing the penguins dismal state in his typically wonderful, dramatic way, we know were in for a whole nother level of humor aimed exclusively at the adults in the audience. Yes, all animated movies are crammed with self-referential jokes and cheeky pop-culture references, but Penguins of Madagascar does this consistently well. The fact that so much of the word play is so intentionally groan-worthy including a running bit involving celebrity names is part of the fun.   The slick Skipper voiced by series veteran  Tom McGrath is the foursomes self-appointed leader. Kowalski  Chris Miller is the brains of the operation and the groups resident pessimist. Rico  Conrad Vernon, the least developed of the four, essentially swallows things and makes grunting noises, but hes useful in a pinch. Then theres the soft and innocent Private  Christopher Knights, the de facto little brother, whom the other three have known from the moment he hatched. During one of their covert missions, they find themselves taken captive by Dr. Octavius Brine Malkovich, a mad scientist whos actually an evil, shape-shifting octopus in disguise named Dave. Seems hes been tracking the four penguins all over the globe, resentful of the fact that they keep stealing his thunder at various zoos and aquariums. His goal is to capture as many penguins as possible from around the world and zap them with a serum that will turn them into monstrous versions of themselves and make them seem less cuddly and appealing to the masses.  This was essentially the motivation of the dastardly El Macho in  Despicable Me , by the way. He kidnapped nearly all of Grus minions, shot them up with high-tech jelly and turned them into an army of evil, purple minions to help him carry out his nefarious plan. I have a -year-old' Ive seen this movie a lot.  Skipper and his pals try to thwart Daves plan, but also on his tail or his tentacles is a group of legitimate animal super spies led by a wolf whose name is Classified, in a bit of whos-on-first humor. Cumberbatch voices the character with total authority and gravitas, and to think that he has this and the voice of the fearsome dragon Smaug from the epic Hobbit franchise in him as well as the brilliant mathematician Alan Turing in this weeks The Imitation Game speaks to his limitless versatility.  Basically from here, its spies vs. spies in a series of wild action sequences, and the antics wear a bit thin after a while. Penguins of Madagascar seems just about right at  minutes, and couldnt have run much longer. Still, if youre running around doing your holiday shopping and looking for a brief respite, youll be glad you went for a ride with these flightless birds.  