"Persecuted" is a heavy-handed and didactic drama which also manages to be totally mushy in terms of the message its trying to convey. Its the strangest thing. Writer-director  Daniel Luskos film definitely has a pro-Christian perspective and is aimed at conservative viewers. The ubiquitous presence of Fox News Channel anchor Gretchen Carlson ensures that, and Glenn Beck is among the movies behind-the-scenes backers. But the ideology driving the films paranoid-thriller engine is a little elusive.  James Remar stars as popular evangelist John Luther. A formerly abusive alcoholic and drug addict, Luther has turned his life around with the help of the Lord and built a powerful ministry with a massive following. But when Luther refuses to throw his support behind a piece of legislation known as the Faith and Fairness Act I cannot water down the gospel to advance anybodys political agenda, he solemnly tells the corrupt Senate Majority Leader  Bruce Davison hes framed for the rape and murder of a teenage girl. This vague bill promises sweeping religious reform but also seems to validate the same protections we already enjoy in the Bill of Rights. Still, several politicians futures depend on its passage, all the way up to the laughably menacing, Clintonian president himself. All of these people use their access and their clout to make Luthers life as miserable as possible. Because clearly, they have nothing better to do.  A husband and father of a young girl himself, Luther must turn his back on everyone and everything he knows and go on the run to avoid the various forces that are targeting him. After a highly symbolic cleansing he showers while artfully blurry images from that fateful night flash through his mind he seeks solace and protection from his father, a Catholic priest played by  Fred Dalton Thompson.  While Remar does his best to resist the films melodramatic tendencies to no avail, ultimately Thompson is the only one here who actually grounds the proceedings during his few moments on screen. Also among the supporting cast is a barely-there  Dean Stockwell as one of the higher-ups in Luthers ministry, who may or may not be a bad guy. Its hard to tell. Its also hard to tell whether Luther is the moderate or the extremist in this equation. He opposes the bill which ensures equality of religion, and is therefore evil because he feels its anti-Christian, but he also clutches a rosary in one hand and a gun in the other as he scurries about, struggling to survive and clear his name.   Heres my question, though if these Washington power brokers want this guys support, doesnt tarnishing his name actually hurt their cause? Or are they sending Secret Service agents out to destroy him for straight-up retribution in all their copious free time? Meanwhile, Luthers longtime friend and colleague, a creepy, flashy preacher named Ryan  Brad Stine, plays all sides insinuating himself with Luthers worried wife, working for the FBI and schmoozing up the dirty senator and his cronies.  Regardless of the details or lack thereof, Persecuted seems most interested in serving as an affirmation of faith. Characters die or nearly die while standing by their beliefs, something thats telegraphed by the Martin Luther King Jr. quote in the films opening title card: "A man who wont die for something is not fit to live." Lusko often depicts Luther kneeling in prayer or reading his Bible while dramatic music swells, hammering home the fact that were watching a moving, spiritual moment.  "Persecuted" stridently argues that Christianity is under attack, but its preaching to the choir. 