I understand that making your name in a massive blockbuster fantasy franchise in which you play one of the lesser but very likable! Hobbits presents a lot of where-do-we-go-from-here challenges for a performer.  Dominic Monaghan, who played Merry in the Lord of the Rings pictures, has chosen poorly with his latest project, Pet.  Monaghan plays Seth, an assistant at an animal shelter. Hes kind, caring and loves the animals a lot' when he has to assist in the destruction of a German Shepherd of whom hes fond, the vet actually presses him about adopting the dog. His building doesnt take pets, Seth responds. Move, the vet counters. On nine dollars an hour, Seth retorts. Such is Seths lot' living alone, in humble quarters.    One afternoon on a bus he sees a young woman a girl he knew in high school, Holly  Ksenia Solo, and quite the beauty she is. Seth gets so excited he goes full  Anthony Perkins. Never go full Anthony Perkins, Seth. I should clarify that he goes full Anthony Perkins in the sense of Norman Bates making a sandwich for Marion, not doing the other thing. Still. Dont do that.   This is one of those movies in which the main character is a perfectly round-edged sad sack who,after the precipitating incident of running into a high school crush,suddenly acquires an expertise in stalking. Soon Seth is Googling like mad the website he uses is a fake one called Sleuth, and good on Google for making their name hard to use in trashy movies like this one, visiting Hollys place of work, and asking a surly and burly coworker, Nate  Da'Vone McDonald, how to talk to girls.   During his incredibly inappropriate pursuit of Holly, during which he fritters away most of the sympathy a viewer might be able to muster for him, Seth makes a particularly bad move and ends up taking a punch to the face, which he laughs at, because chasing Holly has unhinged him just that badly. But wait! In the fracas accompanying the beating, Holly loses her diary, which Seth absconds with. And upon examining it, he discovers something that motivates him even further.   And so, despite making only nine dollars an hour, he buys a bunch of welding equipment and the components to make a human-size cage. Maybe he has a really good credit score. He puts the cage in a super-restricted area of the shelter, kidnaps Holly, and, when she awakes in her underwear and in a cage, he tells her that hes going to save her.  Whats going on here? Actually, youll be able to guess quite a bit of it if you choose to see this picture. Including the actual nature of the relationship between Holly and her sassy-n-tatted roomie Claire  Jennette McCurdy.   The rank, idiotic implausibilities continue to mount, including Seths transformation from a wholly recessive personality into a kind of master of psychological manipulations. The movie is also replete with nasty shock effects captivity really does a number on Hollys manicure, for one thing and stupendously banal dialogue: Look, Im not some psycho, okay?' You just have it all figured out, dont you?' and of course the inevitable You dont get it, do you? The movie, directed with unbecoming relish by  Carles Torrens from a script by  Jeremy Slater who wrote the disastrous  Fantastic Four, which maybe made him bitter sputters and pants its way to a kind of twist, one thats genuinely misogynist on the one hand but also too cretinous to be authentically repellent. In a movie year in which Ive had to see both  Clown and  Trash Fire, the bar for worst of year is pretty low. I suppose that Pet, for me at least, completes a trifecta of sorts.    