Remember this name:  Aksel Hennie. If Pioneer, a mixed bag of a conspiracy thriller, works at all, it largely does so because of him. Hennie, now into his second decade as an actor in Norwegian film hes also written and directed a feature gives a spectacular performance as Petter, a deep-sea diver on an oil rig who becomes something of a scapegoat after a mishap that takes the life of his brother and leaves him searching for truth.  At the movies opening, Petter and brother Knut are all diving bravado. Working with a team that includes some American oil-and-diving consultants and laborers portrayed by the likes of  Wes Bentley and Stephen Lang, Petter and Knut are excited to hit new depths as they work to create an oil-money payday for themselves and their countrys economy. Thats one small step for a man, Knut proclaims in English on reaching a particular plateau. Their swagger doesnt last long, and Petter, after failing to save his brother, has to sit in a decompression chamber for an unconscionably long time. Once hes out, hes convinced the accident occurred because his oxygen feed was cut. Hes told that hes mistaken, and he ought to accept his part in what happened and let it lie. He wont. So begins a drama inspired by actual events in the early s, as it happens that writerdirector  Erik Skjoldbjrg says was inspired by the likes of  The Conversation and  Chinatown. Those are high bars for inspiration, and while Skjoldbjaerg, whose feature career started very strong with the remade-by-Christopher-Nolan  Insomnia in , and veered of disastrously with his English-language debut Prozac Nation, perhaps the most catastrophic example of sophomore jinx in the history of the lively arts, exhibits tight command over action and suspense in the movies opening scenes, Pioneer falters as its cover-up scenario builds steam.  The director seems uncertain of just where he wants the films emotional temperature to rest, and so vacillates between a low key that verges on somnolent and brow-furrowed on-the-nose intensity. Through it all, though, Hennie is the anchor. Initially puffed-up and full of lean macho confidence, his portrayal of deflation, and subsequent betrayal, is conveyed in largely physical terms, and the performance is always entirely compelling. The movie has been bought by  George Clooneys concern, Smokehouse Films, for a fully-English-language remake, and its a safe bet that Clooneys version will be more overtly political than this film. But Clooney might do well to cast Hennie in ANY role in the picture, as its clear hes got the talent and magnetism to enhance whatever picture he turns up in. And hell be turning up in a big one in , playing a supporting role in Ridley Scotts now-filming adaptation of the highly praised sci-fi novel The Martian.  