From yo-ho-ho to yo-ho-hum. Isnt it generous of the folks at Disney to bestow upon us, the humble ticket-buying public, another chance to contribute to star  Johnny Depps wine-of-the-month club fund by launching a fifth voyage into the diminishing returns of its Pirates of the Caribbean franchise. And, by returns, I am not talking about the gazillions of gold doubloons collected at the box office . billion worth worldwide to be exact. Instead, its that sinking feeling that has been growing with each successive voyage into blockbuster overkill in the form of distracting -D gimmickry, eardrum-endangering sound, frantic action set pieces, CGI spectacle warning: get ready for super-fake ghost sharks and the debasement of such top-tier talents as  Bill Nighy,  Penelope Cruz,  Ian McShane and, now,  Javier Bardem that the studio needs to simply drop anchor and move on. True, this is the most successful series of films based on a brand-name theme-park attraction not exactly a matter of pride, however, given that neither s  The Country Bears nor s  Tomorrowland were deemed worthy of sequels by the House of Mouse. But what was amusing, clever and innovative in s original, The Curse of the Black Pearl I always liked those pirates who were exposed as skeletons when struck by moonlight now feels like "been there, plundered that." This time, the subtitle and theres always a subtitle is Dead Men Tell No Tales. I get a vicarious thrill whenever a films name is actually spoken out loud by a character and Bardems ghastly Captain Salazar a zombie-fied rival of Depps perpetually soused swashbuckler Jack Sparrow whose re-awakened ghoulish Spanish crew is determined to slay every pirate on the high seas doesnt disappoint. As this leader of a gang of buccaneers in various degrees of decay explains in between the gushes of blood oozing from his mouth, he always leaves one survivor to pass along his legendary exploits. Why? Dead men tell no tales. Norwegian directing team Joaquim Ronning and  Espen Sandberg  Kon-Tiki" as well as screenwriter Jeffrey D. Nathanson  Catch Me If You Can appear to be addicted to chaos. They even crowd the IMAX-imized screen with no fewer than six schooners vying for the spotlight which leads to an excess of captains, too. I half-expected that the Nina, the Pinta and the Santa Maria would make cameos. Instead,  Paul McCartney you know, the cute one takes over token rock icon duty from  Keith Richards as Sparrows oddly cheery incarcerated uncle. What else is new, you might ask? With Depps tipsy high-jinks at half-mast in the funny department these days a running gag about the term horologist gets a real workout two fresh and younger faces have been brought on board. Boy-band-bland Australian actor  Brenton Thwaites is Henry, the grown son of Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann  Orlando Bloom and  Keira Knightley, who return briefly after skipping out on No. . He eventually pairs up with Carina Smyth Brit actress  Kaya Scodelario of  The Maze Runner, an orphaned self-taught astronomer whose smarts get her pegged as a witch. They partner with Sparrow in seeking Poseidons trident so Henry can break the curse that has exiled his father and eventually run into another old friend, Captain Hector Barbossa  Geoffrey Rush, who once again rises above the busy chases, sword fights and loud calamities simply by being subtle rather than obvious. That the newcomers dont engage in a romance is as original as Dead Men gets.   Much of the two-hour-plus running time is eaten up by elaborate stunt-filled centerpieces. One has Sparrow repeatedly avoiding a guillotines blade by the narrowest of margins while Carina manages to avoid death by hanging. Another goes all  Cecil B. DeMille with the parting of the ocean while the previously mentioned ghost sharks lack  Jaws-like snap. Meanwhile, an ill-timed I do nearly gets an appalled Sparrow wed to a plump elderly widow with a massive case of scabies. At some point, he acquires a mischievous capuchin monkey. The most ridiculous though satisfying sequence involves Sparrows entrance that could double as a metaphor for the entire movie. A new bank is being celebrated on the isle of Saint Martin and the ceremony revolves around a giant safe. Once opened, Jack is found inside taking a nap atop stacks of money as well as someones wife. He apparently was supposed to pull off a robbery and ends up accidentally stealing the entire building instead. Alas, once the pursuit runs its course, most of the riches have been emptied out onto the streets. Those who go to see Dead Men Dont Tell Tales might just recognize that hollow feeling as they leave the theater.   