Films about writers are tough enough. Films about writers who think theyre the smartest person in the room and too cool for the love story in which theyre essentially starring are even more ill-advised. Such is one of the many problems with Playing It Cool, a movie that suffers greatly from its tendency to constantly remind you that This is a Film About WRITERS. Our narrator not only comments on the action of the piece incessantly, hes credited as Me. And the narcissism doesnt stop there. This Me constantly reminds us about how differently writers see the world, how idiosyncratic they are, how smart they are, how much better they are than you, etc. Its like being stuck in the head of a Creative Writing student who looks down on everyone else's major. And the film ultimately falls victim to the false assumption that highlighting clichs makes them easier to bear, when, in fact, I find the opposite true. Embrace your manipulation, dont pretend youre above it before you use it. Only the really strong cast, including great chemistry between the leads, keeps Playing It Cool from totally derailing. Chris Evans plays the narrator, a lovelorn, one-night stand type whose mom left him years ago with a note on the Capn Crunch and whose heart isnt just on his sleeve, its taken form and follows him around, chain-smoking. Then, of course, he gets smacked in the face with love when he meets  Her, played by the lovely  Michelle Monaghan. It wouldnt be a movie if our object of desire was single, and so we get an uptight beau named Stuffy  Ioan Gruffudd to eventually overcome. More problematic for our hero is the fact that he doesnt really believe in the love in which hes falling. He talks through his concerns with writer friends Scott  Topher Grace, Lyle Martin Starr, Mallory  Aubrey Plaza, and Samson  Luke Wilson a group of characters so poorly realized that I started to wonder if they werent all figments of our writers imagination.  Playing It Cool is so self-consciously trying to convince viewers that its the smartest romantic comedy in years that it never bothers to create characters. Im sure writerdirector  Justin Reardon thought he was being clever in his construction unnamed characters who constantly comment on their own clichd situations but the result is an annoyingly pretentious piece of work. Theres more commentary about writing and love in Playing It Cool than actual romance or friendship. It defiantly fails the show, dont tell argument. It is all telling. Which adds to how remarkable it is that Evans and Monaghan keep the film from becoming totally unbearable. Hes likely to always be most famous for Captain America, but Ive always found him a likable actor believable, charismatic, smart. Evans is up for anything. Its Reardons fault that he doesnt give him anything consistent to do. Evans writer is a total narcissist he literally puts himself in the leading roles of every story his writer friends tell him. Lovely, right? And yet Evans is too likable to make this guy the total asshole he probably would be in real life. Similarly, while we never quite understand what Monaghan would see in him besides the physical, shes a typical delight. Shes another actress Id love to see get better work. Maybe they should both stay away from films about writers. 