Survival horror is a tough enough genre to pull off' defining the characters within one through tired clichs and boring archetypes only makes it more so. Films like Preservation only work if the viewer can put him or herself in the shoes of a character trapped in a nightmare. What would you do if you were hunted like prey? Would you be able to kill, even if it was in self-defense? Would you be able to sacrifice your own safety for that of a loved one? Such questions only have resonance if the characters and their plight feel genuine. Such is not the case with Preservation, a film that bold-faces and underlines its quasi-commentary on a generation addicted to technology and cell phones but has less relatable humanity than most of the video games it attempts to decry. Sean  Pablo Schreiber of Orange is the New Black is a recently returned vet who mumbles foreboding nonsense like A real hunter doesnt give chase' a real hunter is already there while on the way to a hunting trip with his brother Mike  Aaron Staton of Mad Men and sister-in-law Wit Wrenn Schmidt of Boardwalk Empire. Sean might as well be wearing a neon shirt that says This Cant Possibly End Well. And hes clearly not the only one dealing with issues as, of course, Wit is newly pregnant and her marriage is not in the best of shape. Unlike the off-the-grid Sean, Mike cant get off his cell phone long enough to fix the problems in his life. Its the hunter brother, the tech brother and the vegan caught in the middle! When Sean casually asks Wit over a bonfire, Whens the last time that you and Mike made love?, one will assume that Preservation is going to a love triangle climax in which Wit has to choose between the brainy brother and the brawny bro. I must give writerdirector  Christopher Denham star of TVs  Manhattan, as well as important supporting roles in  Argo and Shutter Island credit in that that assumption is mostly wrong. Sean, Mike and Wit wake up in a very different nightmare. Overnight, their clothes and supplies have been stolen, and, far more ominously, each of their foreheads has been marked with a black X. What started as a character drama has taken an abrupt left turn, which is refreshing in theory, but the turn ends up being a dramatically thin, predictable one, as Preservation plays out as a traditional hunter-vs-prey survival drama straight out of the s. One minute, the characters are getting to know each other, the next minute one is stabbing someone while muttering the very Stallone-esque You killed my dog and now Im going to kill you. The tormentors are slowly revealed and I wont spoil the details of precisely who they are but theyre very clearly designed to call back to video game culture of the last five years, with masks that will remind players of games like Army of Two or the mega-popular Call of Duty franchise. One of the killers even pauses long enough to play a violent video game on his phone just in case the message isnt crystal clear. Denhams script fires shots at easy targets instead of producing actual tension. To be fair, Schmidt is actually quite good, giving her performance the physical all that it will clearly demand from scene one, but Denham doesnt give her enough to do as an actress other than to survive his too-obvious structure. There are few surprises here after the narratives turn to survival horror as the film plods to its inevitable conclusion, and even that final shot feels unearned.   