A woman dances alone in her apartment to the cheese 's classic It Takes a Muscle to Fall in Love by Spectral Display. Her son and daughter look at her swaying from behind her, amused as we all are when we catch people with their guards down. Their mother turns around to reveal running mascara and the expressions on the faces of her children change as well. In many ways, this early scene is what  Sam de Jongs Prince is about posturing and posing that hides something deeper. We are never at our more image-obsessed than in the hazy, horny, love-sick days of our teenage years, and while Prince feels a little slight when the credits roll less than  minutes after it begins, its still a strong, creative addition to the crowded coming-of-age genre. Our troubled young man this time is named Ayoub engaging newcomer  Ayoub Elasri. His mother is lonely, looking for love online but mostly failing. His half-sister is his most supportive ally, getting him more than the barely-men with whom he spends most of his time hanging out, looking at the common objects of teenage obsession cars and girls. Ayoubs dad is a junkie, seen almost entirely in an abandoned, emptied pool in which he shoots up and basically avoids Ayoubs attempts at connection. At one point, Ayoub tells him, Dad, Im in love, and he just laughs, knowing the trouble such a statement often leads to, and unable to really offer any cogent advice. Ayoub is in love with a beautiful young woman named Laura Sigrid ten Napel, who smiles at him and then tells her boyfriend about it. Lauras boyfriend is one of the older, tougher guys on the other side of the street, and he doesnt take too kindly to the young punk talking to his girl. Writerdirector Sam de Jong crafts parallel groups. Ayoub and his friends are matched across the lot by what they might look like in ten years another group of dude-bros with more tattoos, muscles, and the beginning of crows feet. Its the same macho bullshit, tinged with more aggression and more failure. And Ayoub wants to nab Laura from its clutches before its too late.  At the same time, an even darker predator than Lauras boyfriend lurks on the fringe of Prince in the form of a local gangster named Kalpa internationally known rapper Freddy Tratlehner. He drives a flashy car and his name is spoken in hushed tones. Hes clearly crazy. Can he teach Ayoub how to stand up for himself? Can he be the father figure this young man so clearly needs but lacks?  The first act of Prince is stylish and creative. It is about the teen years of boredom and insecurity as much as anything. These kids who think theyre men hang around in what looks like constant sunshine, doing almost nothing but forming their identities in the process. De Jong and his team often shoot from unique angles, like knee-level, and sometimes even allow the characters to speak directly to the camera. This is the life of a teenager stylized, exaggerated, but hollow. A synth-heavy score reminiscent of Cliff Martinezs work on  Drive gives the entire piece a unique flair.   As Prince gets more plot-heavy, especially in an emotional final act that the young actors cant quite handle, it gets a bit less interesting. Some of the decisions made by Ayoub, especially after he realizes his sister has a boyfriend, feel forced. Its hard to believe given its short running time, but Prince actually needed less plot. Its the way that Prince captures those hazy, confused days of teenage life with its own direct style that works, not the manipulative twists of its narrative climax. Luckily, none of the missteps of Prince derail the piece entirely. Like the emotional minefields of adolescence, the characters quickly move on to the next beat, and when they walk into the future in the final scenes, I was surprised how much I enjoyed my time with Ayoub and his buddies. I wondered where life would take them from here. And thats the sign of a good coming-of-age film it captures how this phase is not an ending but just a new beginning. 