It has all the trappings of a tasteful period piece: the true-story origins, the tweedy collegiate setting, the to-die-for costumes. But beneath all that, Professor Marston and the Wonder Women aims to shake you up, make you think and maybe even squirm a little.  Make that a lot. This movie is sexy as hell, featuring several scenes of steamy three-ways and kinky Samp'M games.  Luke Evans as the title character and  Rebecca Hall and  Bella Heathcote as the two great loves of his life have ridiculous, combustible chemistry in and out of the bedroom as well as the many other locations, public and private, where they dared to explore their shared love at a time when the rest of the world definitely wasnt ready for it.   But Professor Marston  also couldnt be more relevant, and not just because it happens to be hitting theaters just four months after the release of the smash-hit blockbuster  Wonder Woman. Its a timely affirmation of feminine power of the ways in which female wisdom and strength can charge hearts and minds, influence culture and inspire others to be their most authentic selves. That was certainly true of this summers origin story, with its deeply moving lead performance from  Gal Gadot, and its true again here in the origin story behind that origin story.  It takes a little while for the beloved superhero to come into full blossom, but her iconography is there, emerging steadily in illuminating, amusing ways. Unfortunately, though, writerdirector  Angela Robinson relies on a back-and-forth narrative structure which has been used in so many biopics, its become a clich to tell the tale of how the comic book heroine and her alter ego, Diana Prince, came into being.  At the films start in the mid-s, Evans William Marston  who created Wonder Woman under the pseudonym Charles Moulton is being interrogated about the characters scandalous, sadomasochistic imagery by the head of the Child Study Association of America, the uptight Josette Frank  Connie Britton. Flashbacks to , when he was a Harvard psychology professor working alongside his brilliant wife, Elizabeth Hall, shed light on the source of this aesthetic.  Where Marston was all charm and charisma and good looks, Elizabeth was sharp-witted and no-nonsense. The energy between the two crackles long before they begin sharing their lab and, eventually, their bed with Olive Byrne Heathcote, a Radcliffe student who initially enters their lives as a research assistant. The couple cant deny their joint attraction for the bright, beautiful blonde and she, in turn, falls for them both, which shes forced to admit in an exquisitely tense scene involving an early version of a lie detector. The Marstons are crediting with coming up with the device.     Their sexual frolicking leads to dress-up and bondage when Marston brings his two loves to the backroom of a costume shop for a secret rope-play course and the corset, boots and ropes they employ might look a little familiar. Cinematographer  Bryce Fortners dramatic use of silhouette lighting during this scene adds to its warm, intimate power and, yes, its wonder.  Early on, though, we had a hint that this might be a shared turn-on when the couple spies on Olive paddling a sorority pledge during a hazing ritual supposedly as research for their theories on dominance and submission. And conversely, we can tell from the way Heathcotes big, blue eyes widen even more that Olive is enjoying being watched. Its scenes like these that reveal how deftly Robinson builds suspense and how seamlessly she introduces the psychology that inspiredWonder Woman.  But then she makes the mistake of undermining that tension and insight by hopping back and forth in time, often at predicable moments. And Professor Marston  can be painfully on-the-nose in making its points, such as the use of Nina Simones sultry Feeling Good during the first time the three explore their pent-up desires. I mean, of course they are. Its obvious.  The performances from the three leads always keep the film compelling, though especially from Hall and Heathcote, two actresses with extremely different screen presences who nonetheless challenge and complement each other perfectly. Professor Marston  works well as an elucidating slice of pop-culture history you might not have known before, but its even more impactful as a timeless celebration of strong women supporting each other. 