Alex Ross Perrys Queen of Earth is as unsettling as any horror film that youll see this year but it so by virtue of its filmmaking and its performances instead of a twisting and turning narrative. Echoing dramas of internal conflict turned into threats of physical danger like  Persona and Repulsion, Perry explores the concept that it is the human mind and its emotional undercurrents that is the most terrifying thing in the world. Anchored by incredible performances from  Elisabeth Moss and  Katherine Waterston, this is one of the most mesmerizing pictures of the year.  Queen of Earth opens with a tone-defining close-up of Catherine Moss. Her makeup has run into bags around her eyes, her hair is disheveled, and she is emotionally drained. It is brutal, unsparing and direct. Perry doesnt pull back and offer much coverage, just a couple close-ups of Catherines now-ex-boyfriend James  Kentucker Audley. He is breaking up with her, and she is not taking it well, noting that this is the kind of emotional blow, coming shortly after the death of her father, that will devastate her. As we will quickly learn, Catherine was one of those people who was deeply co-dependent on two men in her life her father and her boyfriend. When the former dies and the latter leaves her, she will be totally adrift and border on unstable. To try to bring her back to Earth, friend Virginia Waterston, Ginny to her friends but only her friends, invites Catherine to spend the weekend at her familys cabin in the woods. Editor  Robert Greene deftly intercuts back to a similar weekend a year ago in which the roles were reversed Catherine was there with James and Virginia was the lonely third wheel, resentful that a girls weekend turned into a triangle. Almost subconsciously but maybe not so sub- creating the same dynamic a year later, Virginia invites her neighbor Rich  Patrick Fugit to spend time with her and Catherine on this sun-kissed weekend. Catherine hates Rich. It could be just because he represents a gender she doesnt feel like seeing right now, or that, like Virginia last year, she resents her emotional healing being invaded. If this all sounds like the set-up for a mumblecore drama, youre not wrong. And yet Queen of Earth has a very different tone than the work of  Joe Swanberg. First, theres the unusual friendship between Virginia and Catherine, two people who can be devastatingly, dangerously honest with each other. They take stabs at each other to see how much the other one will emotionally bleed. They are kind of awful to one another in the way friends know the buttons to push that enemies do not. Ginny accuses Catherine of living in her fathers shadow and tied to her ex-boyfriend, almost as if shes pushing her friend deeper into depression, knowing she has to face some realities before she can return to normalcy. And Perry very carefully focuses more often on the listener, more interested in the impact of whats being said on the person who hears it than the act of saying it.   That impact pushes Catherine closer to the edge of sanity. She tells a visitor one night, You know, I could kill you and no one would know, and Moss delivers the line with just the right mix of humor and truth, as if shes only half-kidding. Perry also uses ominous music throughout Queen of Earth, much like the psychological thrillers from the s that the film sometimes cribs from, raising tension through score as much as action. We feel something bad is going to happen. Will Catherine kill herself? Kill someone else? Her world has shattered and every way in which she defines herself she even worked for her father is gone. As she says, I dont really feel like I exist anymore. And Ginny says she cares about Catherines recovery, but does she? Queen of Earth is terrifying because it is so emotionally unmoored Catherine is a character with little reason to care about anything or anyone, and Perry and Moss convey the danger of that brilliantly. Moss has been a TV awards regular for her great work on Mad Men, and killed it last year in The One I Love and Perrys Listen Up Philip, but this is the best work of her career. She is both shattered and terrifying, the kind of person you want to help but who youre a little scared to talk to. She plays Catherine as totally psychologically untethered and drifting further away from normalcy, but she doesnt chew the scenery in doing so, grounding Catherines breakdown in realism. Waterston is just as good, proving that breakthrough in  Inherent Vice last year was no fluke. Her third act work here is particularly terrific, as Ginny starts to realize that Catherine may not be exactly where Ginny was last year shes further down the road of depression. Like the emotional turmoil of real heartbreak, Queen of Earth refuses easy answers. It will frustrate some viewers in its lack of conclusions, but Perry is more interested in tension than pay-off. Those hazy, uncertain days of our lives when our definitions of ourselves have to change and were not even really sure who our friends are or how we feel about them makes for remarkably ambitious territory for a filmmaker to explore. Alex Ross Perry is a remarkable filmmaker. 