Tsai Ming-Liang's debut film "Rebels of the Neon God," a youth-in-revolt  story that's finally being released to US theaters  years after its  debut, is the director's most accessible film. That will seem like a  funny observation once you've seen it, because Tsai's most accessible  film is more unusual and uncompromising than any you're likely to see  this year.  The movie starts with the offscreen sound of a  tropical storm battering a city, then observes two teenage  smartasses,Ah Tze  Chen Chao-jung andAh Bing Jen Chang-bin,  crowding into a rain-smeared phone booth and robbing the coin box with  crude tools. Hardly a word passes between them. They're both smoking the  whole time' the cigarettes rarely leave their lips. The next half-hour  unfolds with a similar paucity of dialogue. You're just watching Ah Tze,  Ah Bing and a handful of other major characters walking, riding  scooters, talking, studying, stealing motherboards from video games,  arguing with parents, and acting and reacting within the context of  their gigantic home city, Tapei which, despite the film's references to  established deities, is obviously the "neon god" of the title.  This  is one of the great modern films about big cities and the mostly  unacknowledged psychic toll of living in them.Early on, a dutiful but  frustrated student,Hsiao-kang Lee Kang-sheng, impales a cockroach  with the sharp point of a compass and pins it to his desk to watch it  die slowly an expression of astonishing frustration and anger expressed  in an offhand way. A couple of scenes later, he angrily tries to kill  another cockroach clinging to the outside of his bedroom window,  accidentally shatters the glass, cuts himself, and has to staunch the  blood, to the alarm of his parentsLu Yi-ching and Miao Tien. There  are times when every character could be an inmate in a prison movie,  doing whatever he or she has to do to make the time go faster. There are  many shots of people in cot-like beds, sometimes having sex or  pleasuring themselves but more often smoking or sleeping or staring at  the ceiling. Tsai lingers on details that express great longing, sadness  and mystery, such as a when the camera tracks a series of objects  floating in floodwater on an apartment floor including a crushed soda  can and a cigarette butt, or when we observeHsiao-kang exiting a  campus building amid a sea of parked scooters to discover that his has  been towed, for some random reason. In the background we hear a young  woman imploring cops not to tow her scooter as they're ignoring her and  hoisting it onto a tow truck. Incredibly,  though, considering how unpleasant many of the situations are, this is a  different, vastly less oppressive feeling than we get from watching  later features by the director, such as "What Time is There?", "The  River" and last year's "Stray Dogs" works in which the artist's gaze is  more merciless, his shots more carefully composed and held at much  greater length, and the characters' psychodrama even more pitilessly  observed, to the point where you feel as though you're watching a whole  society being figuratively drawn-and-quartered on a coroner's  examination table. Here, when we watch lives of the student, his  parents, the two petty thieves and their tag-along gal palAh Kuei Wang  Yu-wen, the circumstances feel awfully dire a lot of the time the  thieves' apartment remains flooded throughout the film, and you often  see debris and dead cockroaches floating on the surface of the water and  yet the youthful energy of the characters and the sheer ominous beauty  of the movie's Tapei locations make the story, such as it is, feel oddly  bouncy.The stories of the petty criminals  and the student are very loosely connected:Hsiao-kang followsAh Tze  around and spies on him, sees him smash the side view mirror of his  dad's taxi, and spends the rest of the story trying and eventually  succeeding at obtaining a petty and unimaginative sort of revenge or  "satisfaction".But this attempt to connect or parallel the stories  feels as arbitrary as those moments in a  Robert Altman film where  characters from different social strata are briefly glimpsed in the same  scene or shot, riding the same bus or eating in the same coffee shop,  as if to say, "Small world, eh?" You never feel that Tsai is trying to shoehorn conventional devices into an unconventional  project' it's more like he's practicing or experimenting with such focus and  control that he always seems to be testing notions and propositions  rather than just futzing  around. "Rebels" is as much a film about observation and sensation and  feeling as Tsai's subsequent movies, and it's also the unofficial opening chapter in what looks to be a loosely linked ongoing series, a la Francois Truffaut's Antoine Doniel films with Lee Kang-sheng as his go-to hero. But it's lighter than much of his later work improbably so,  given the unstinting view of poverty cited throughout this review.    The  opening credits sequence of the phone booth-jacking pals riding  their scooters while glaring at the city is an example of what I'm  talking about: it has a  James Dean sort of cool, at once  straightforwardly awesome, mockingly funny and pathetically deluded.  Dean's " Rebel Without a Cause" hero makes a kind of cameo via a poster  hanging in an arcade. In its way, this is the closest the director will  probably ever get to making something like " Mean Streets" or " Badlands." It says, "The world can be cruel and cold,  but it's still good to be young." 