Any description of "Rememory" is bound to make it soundmore inviting than it is. I was, admittedly, drawn in by the story's high-conceptpremise: Gordon Dunn  Martin Donovan,the inventorof a cutting-edge, memory-extracting machine, is found dead, and it's up to mysterious friend Sam Bloom  Peter Dinklage to solve the case. Gordon's device is intriguing because it gives us a supposedly objective window into any user's past. When you see thepastthroughthis invention, you're supposedlywatching eventsreplay without the impediments ofpersonal bias, or natural forgetfulness. Better yet: as you watch footage recorded directly from users' brains, youassume theposition of the person revisiting their past.The camera shows uswhat users observedinthe past during major life events, likebirthday parties, breathtaking trips to exotic locations, moments of physical intimacywith loved ones, or evenscreaming matches with those same loved ones. Unfortunately,co-writerdirector  Mark Palansky doesn't do enough with this fantastic mainconceit. There is nothing vicariously joyfulabout Sam's process of discovery, nor any memorably provocative moments ofreflection from Gordon's patients, almost all of whom regrethaving gotten involvedwith him, and his futuristic memory. Instead, we watch as Sam driftsfrom one encounter to the next withoutmaking a lasting impression. It's a maddening experience, watching a film witha greatkernel of an idea fail to growinto something equally impressive. We start from the premise that Sam Bloom is, like so many amateur detectives, a stranger observing a gallery of loosely-connectedoutsiders. Gordon's death has not been officially called a homicide, but that doesn't matter to Sam. He knows that any blemish onGordon's legacy could negatively affect his companyCortex,represented in the film by selfish bureaucratLawton "Lost" star  Henry Ian Cusick,and nervous flunky Neil Frankel Chad Krowchuk. So, Sam starts his own independent search for answers, starting with an impromptu meeting with Gordon's widow Carolyn  Julia Ormond. During this casual conversation, Sam steals Gordon's memory-transcribing prototype, and proceeds to track down Gordon's patients. During this process, Sam lies to suspects and their family members about his own identity. He assumes false names, and is evasive about his personal connection to Gordon. But viewers know, thanks to an early conversation with Carolyn, that Sam and Gordon met by chance during a thunderstorm at a hotel bar, and made a deep connection after much imbibing. Sam and Gordon's bond is largely represented through Dinklage's impassioned line delivery, and his character's recollection of his eventful evening with Gordon.Palansky also shows us a snippet from Sam's memory of Gordon,laughing and smiling beatifically as he's pelted with enough rain to givethe healthiest male athlete a crippling case of pneumonia. Sam's memory looks like a film school student's approximationofa post-"Tree of Life"  Terrence Malick flashback, only it's beenlensed byone of the featured photographers inthose eye-roll-inducing"Shot on iPhone"advertisements.So while this scene should be dazzling and tantalizing,it's unconvincing and banal.   The limitations of Palansky and co-writer Mike Vukadinovich's sharedvision are, realistically, the biggest problem with "Rememory." Theydon't spend enough time examining the fundamental disconnect between the way characterssee themselves, and their true,"objective" nature, whatever that might be. Maybe the deciding momentsincharacters' lives play out exactly as they areremembered. Or, more likely, maybe people don't recognize the people they once were. I couldn't tell based onchopped-up, over-prettified flashback fragmentsbecause these characters are valuableto Sam as suspects.They stop mattering tohim after he's sifted through their backstories, and determined if they werea threat to Gordon.So we don'tlearn anything substantial when, byfilm's end,Samhas a breakthrough, and realizes that all he was looking for was "focus" and "resolution," and not clarity, or closure. There's a difference between these two sets of values, but you couldn't tell based on "Rememory." Palansky and Vukadinovich never accomplish what the makers of other superiorfilms, like " Defending Your Life," " After Life," or even " Human Nature," previously did by forcing their characters toreconsider the impact they've had on others' lives. I reallywanted to like "Rememory," if only because Inormallyenjoy the work ofits talented cast members, especially Dinklage, and the late  Anton Yelchin, the latter of whom has a negligible, minutes-long walk-on part. But to enjoy "Rememory," you have to care aboutPalansky and Vukadinovich'splot as a character-revealing mechanism. "Rememory" never worksas a procedural, so it'sanunsurprisingly lifelesspiece of science-fiction.   