The only thing novel about the generic Hong Kong gangster film  "Revenge of the Green Dragons" is its subject: Chinese immigrants  struggling to maintain their agency and identities in New York City in  the mid-to-late 's. Everything else about the film is lifted from  other true crime stories, especially Martin Scorsese's seminal dramas.  This is partly intentional, as we see in bookend images that position  the film as a pseudo-universal, one-immigrant-story-fits-all story: angry waves lap at a boat filled with illegal immigrants. But the boat's human cargo is tellingly offscreen, ostensibly in order to lend these scenes a mythic quality. But by widening the scope of their based-on-a-true story, the makers of "Revenge of the Green Dragon" make their subjects look like the products of unimaginative cultural assimilation. "Revenge  of the Green Dragons" is the story of Sonny and Steven  Justin Chon and   Kevin Wu, two young men who try and fail to discover themselves by  joining a gang. That's not a spoiler: Sonny ostentatiously broadcasts  his inevitable failure in a world-weary  introduction:"This is a story about coming to America. Only it's not  that story, the one where everyone lives happily ever after." This  warning might be exciting if "Revenge of the Green Dragons" didn't  immediately proceed to deliver the exact story Sonny claims to be responding to, and not buying into.  Welcome  to Flushing, Queens in , a time when Chinese immigrants dominated  the neighborhood, and, according to Sonny, left bewildered Jewish and  Greek residents wondering at the influx of MSG-slinging restaurants.  These restaurants are either protected, or run by gangs like the Green  Dragons, thugs that terrorize women, and pre-pubescent kids like Sonny  and Steven. The Dragons' presence is a sad fact of life. They're  boisterous, trigger-happy stereotypes, the kind of preening tough guys  that taunt Chinese-American cops by accusing them of cronyism and collusion. These guys claim to be different than the five  other major gangs in Queens, but that's apparently wishful thinking. Still,  even after they're beaten up and mercilessly hazed by the Green  Dragons, Sonny and Steven inexplicably still want to be one of them, one  of them. They believe Chen I. Chung Leonard Wu when he puffs out his  chest and snarls to himself "I'm Green Dragon: I know who I am." But you  never really find out what that means since "Revenge of the Green  Dragons" is a convoluted connect-the-dots gangster narrative with no  pretensions or vested interest in its characters' motives. All we is  know is Sonny and Steven want to pass as big men, and inevitably realize  what anyone that's seen " Mean Streets" or " Goodfellas" already knows:  there's no hope for advancement in a world where dog routinely bites  dog.The immigrant experience in "Revenge of the  Green Dragons" is a dim projection that's most intriguing when powerless  characters like Sonny bluntly talk about how disenfranchised  disenchanted they are. The film eventually collapses into cliches, but  it does start off strong, suggesting that there's a difference between  line-toeing immigrants and stubborn "Chinamen" who refuse to get with  the program. In one fleetingly memorable scene, Steven and Sonny share a  hot dog because "This is America. You eat what they eat." Sonny, the  film's narrator and the closest thing it has to a hero, also dryly jokes  that the Chinese population in Flushing boomed so fast in the 's that  the  train became known as "the Orient Express." But after  these initial tantalizing hints of a unique, and heretofore unheralded  New York drama, "Revenge of the Green Dragons" settles into comforting  cliches. There's a doomed romance with Tina Shuya Chang, who's too  good for boyfriend Sonny, but not good enough to leave him. And there's  tension between sympathetic white hat cop Detective Tang Jin Auyeung,  and, if you'll pardon the pun, bull-in-a-China-shop FBI agent Michael  Bloom  Ray Liotta, half-asleep. There's also Sonny and Steven's  fraternal rivalry, though that often feels like an afterthought in a  film that distractedly shifts from one sub-plot to the next. All of these tiresome elements are lumped into "Revenge of the Green Dragons"' melting pot of miserablist pulp, and none of them come out  well: the action scenes are covered, not directed' there's no chemistry  between any of the lead actors' and the film's prefabricated  trust-nobody attitude isn't convincing, especially not when Sonny conspires with viewers through voiceover narration, and outlines the Green Dragons' cardinal rules, like "Never  shoot whites," and "Always shoot guy in head." That's supposed to be  tall talk from a kid who clearly doesn't know better, but it just sounds  like bad jive. There's a good story somewhere in "Revenge of the Green  Dragons," but it's not the one Lau and his colleagues chose to retell. 