Its good to be  Richard Linklater. How many other American film directors can you name whove had three feature-length documentaries made about them, before theyve reached the age of ? One of the docs is Double Play and its kind of a, well, double play: the critic and filmmaker Gabe Klingers  picture chronicles the friendship between Linklater and avant-garde filmmaker James Benning. I havent seen s  Years: Richard Linklater. But this year brings Richard Linklater: Dream Is Destiny, co-directed by Karen Bernstein and  Louis Black.  Not the comedian Louis Black' this Black was the founder of the alt-newspaper theAustin Chronicle, one of the founders of the SXSW Film Festival and an active champion of filmmaking in the region this year he brought a restoration of Eagle Penells Last Night At the Alamo to BAM Cinemafest. He also acted in Linklaters early feature  Slacker and is seen interviewing Linklater throughout this movie. His presence is properly indicative of the films treatment of Linklater as both a Hollywood outsider and a regional filmmaker par excellence.  The movie is more conventional than Klingers: it goes for the archival-footage-and-interviews format, and one of the early observations from actor  Jack Black, whos done memorable work in a couple of Linklaters films, sets the theme: Puncturing the notion of the divinely inspired or pretentiously inscrutable artiste, Black says, When you see his process, you just go, Oh, its hard work.  Invoking Linklaters roots his formative years in Huntsville, his teen ambitions to be a novelist AND a Major League Baseball player the movie presses the work-ethic trope hard. Its interesting to hear  Julie Delpy, who costarred with  Ethan Hawke in a trilogy of relationship films beginning with s  Before Sunrise, say that Linklater himself would never make the kind of impulsive offer that Ethan Hawkes Jesse makes of Delpys Celine in that picture. Linklaters stick-to-it ethos is by necessity pragmatic as film critic Kent Jones observes, This is a guy who adapts to circumstances.  But he does so in order to make art, not to make a financial fortune, and the movie does a good job of showing how the filmmaker has maintained his independence, keeping Hollywood at arms length while never approaching it with disdain. The movies strongest patch is early on, chronicling the creation of Slacker and its attendant micro-success. Seeing John Pierson interviewed brings the early s optimism about American indie films back in a heady rush, as does seeing the clip of our own founder Roger Ebert talking about the movie. Id have liked to hear more about the dumping of  Dazed and Confused by distributor Universal, and Linklaters reflections on how the movie subsequently became a cult item anyway. One sequence depicting a fallow period for Linklater in terms of critical reception features a dopey audio montage that attempts to float Linklater upon a sea of bad-review-troubles' I would have preferred, again, to hear from Linklater himself about the failed narrative experiment of Fast Food Nation. Kent Jones also bemoans the reception of the masterpiece A Scanner Darkly in ' dont look at me, my friend, I gave it four stars in Premiere. The stuff dealing with s  Boyhood does remind one just what an extraordinary accomplishment that movie is. And again, it is an occasion to celebrate the filmmakers Git-R-Done ethos: To entertain the idea that there was fear he wasnt gonna finish Boyhood, Ethan Hawke says, was to fundamentally misunderstand him. While not an earth-shaker, this movie is an amiable and informative look at a guy who is shaping up to be, yes, one of the major American directors of the last fifty years.  