In , on the first of several visits to Iran to investigate its cinema, I met a smart, genial young Iranian-Canadian filmmaker and journalist named  Maziar Bahari. We kept in occasional touch thereafter and I followed his reporting on Iran in Newsweek, and was also impressed by his filmmaking, especially a chilling documentary called Along Came a Spider, about an unapologetic Iranian serial killer who preyed on prostitutes. In , after the learning the disturbing news that Bahari had been arrested while covering the massive unrest that followed Irans contested presidential election, I was shocked to see footage of him on television confessing to being a foreign spy and participating in a nefarious plot to destabilize Iran by the West. Maziars tense, drawn expression as well as his absurd words made it clear that this was a coerced statement, but what, I wondered, could have brought him to this point? The answer to that is provided in Rosewater, the gripping, intelligent directorial debut of TV personality  Jon Stewart, who also wrote the screenplay, based on Baharis post-prison memoir, Then They Came For Me. The connection between Baharis story and Stewarts "The Daily Show" is made plain early in Rosewater. While hes covering the election before being arrested, Bahari expertly played by  Gael Garcia Bernal gives an interview to one of Stewarts colleagues in which he jokes about being a spy. Later, in prison, he will try to explain to his brutal interrogator excellent  Kim Bodnia, a man he nicknames Rosewater for the cologne he wears, that this was all a joke and "The Daily Show" is satire, not news. The concept of spy talk being offered up for laughs, though, is obviously one that Rosewater cant grasp. And no wonder: its entirely outside the frame of reference of a pious torturer whose life is dedicated to the defense of Irans theocracy and its Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei. In one sense, the two mindsets we see colliding in that interrogation roomone medieval, one modernform the crux not only of Rosewaters drama, but also of Irans ongoing struggle over its identity and place in the world. After a prologue showing Baharis arrest, the films first  minutes detail what led to it. In London, Bahari leaves his partner Paola  Claire Foy, whos pregnant with their first child, for what both assume will be a brief trip to Iran to cover its elections. In Tehran, people are in a fever-pitch of excitement over a contest that pits hard-line sitting president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad against his popular reformist challenger, Mir Hossein Mousavi. As Bahari sees, Mousavi has strong support among young, educated and urban Iranians, while Ahmadinejad, in addition to appealing more to the poor and unlettered, has bolstered his support with massive government hand-outs. Though Mousavi has been leading in the polls, there are ominous signs on several fronts. Supreme Leader Khamenei, who should remain neutral, has titled toward Ahmadinejad, and in the campaigns one debate, Ahmadinejad adopts gutter tactics by smearing Mousavis wife.   On election day, Ahmadinejads forces announce the results even before the polls close: their man has won in a landslide. Mousavis supporters naturally suspect a massive fraud and begin protesting immediately. Using a mix of documentary and dramatized footage, Stewart and editor Jay Rabinowitz abetted by ace cinematographer  Bobby Bukowski construct a riveting chronicle of the following days, when, as the world watches via TV news and social media, more than a million Mousavi supporterswearing green, a color associated with Islammarch in the streets claiming their votes have been stolen. Its an uprising that shakes the Islamic Republics foundations. In his book, Bahari says he later gained information that, a year before these events, Irans Revolutionary Guards devised a plot in which he and a few others would be designated as agents of the West attempting to stage a color revolution in Iran. The film doesnt indicate this. Rather, it hints that he was targeted due to filming and disseminating images of protestors being gunned down as they attacked the pro-government Basij militia HQ. This turn from peaceful to violent protest was crucial, and its unclear whether it was sparked by the governments thugs or agents provocateurs from the MEK, an Iraq-based Marxist cult that allegedly has worked with the Mossad. Once hes in Tehrans notorious Evin prison, and under the harsh control of Rosewater, its obvious that Bahari is in for an ordeal. His interrogator has been given marching orders: he must gain the reporters admission of having worked for foreign intelligence services and incriminate others for doing the same.  Although in Baharis account he was beaten continuously his face was spared because his captors knew they wanted him on camera, Stewart downplays the physical violence and concentrates instead on the psychological pressure that, even during the Shahs time, Iranian interrogators knew was more effective in breaking down their victims.   In solitary confinement for days that turn into weeks and then months, Bahari has no other human contact besides Rosewater, who taunts him that everyone he knows outside has abandoned him. So he devises mental games to shore up his sanity, and has imaginary conversations with Paola as well as his late father  Haluk Bilginer and sister  Golshifteh Farahani, both of whom endured torture and long prison sentences under the Shah.  There are a few lighter moments along the way, as when Bahari, sensing how much of Rosewaters cruelty owes to sexual repression, tantalizes him with made-up stories of erotic massages hes received in New Jersey which Rosewater envisions as sin central. Yet most of Baharis experience is torturous both literally and figuratively, and eventually he decides to give the regimes cameras the fantasy conspiracy stories they want, in hopes that theyll let him go home to see his child born. My one real gripe with Stewarts script is that it doesnt make clear that Bahari according to his own account, though admitting to media espionage, did not name names, i.e. implicate reformist leaders, fellow journalists or others, as his captors wanted him to. This is a very important point in his decision to cooperate with their televised confession of fabricated malefactions. On the other hand, Stewarts script offers some very smart additions to Baharis account. In one scene, he provides a recollection as Ben Affleck did in the prologue of  Argo of the C.I.A.-backed coup that overthrew Irans democratically elected leader in a canny reminder that Irans suspicions regarding the West are not all paranoid fantasies. In another scene, he reveals that Baharis father was imprisoned for being a Communist and allows Maziar to challenge his self-righteous dad with the observation that he devoted his life to the Stalinist system that produced the gulag, a model for Irans torture mills. In a sense, its when Maziar can free himself from his fathers heroic image that he is really free to go home, notwithstanding the huge international outcry that helped secure his release. Unlike his father, hes not prepared to sacrifice everything for an abstract ideal. His victory will lie in making it back to his wife and daughterand living to tell the tale. 