Rumble, the guitar instrumental recorded by Link Wray in , is to modern rock music what the monolith was to those primates in the Dawn of Man section of  : A Space Odyssey. If youre ever on a quest for The Thing Itself in amplified music, Rumble is a convincer. Sure, Chuck Berry invented licks and riffs and a worldview that invented rock n roll, but Wray, with a surly distorted tone that one-upped the broken-amplifier crackle of Ike Turners axe on Rocket , helped invent rock. Hendrix, hard rock, heavy metal all owe him big.    Hes the launching pad for this movie about Native Americans here called Indians for reasons that become clearer as the movie goes on and their influence not just on rock but on American music. As is pointed out more than once, the music of the Shawnee, the Choctaw, the Mohawk, the Apache, and so many other tribes, is in a very real sense the first American music. Race-mixing between blacks and Indians resulted in a cultural consciousness that enabled a melding of African music and Indian. Among other things, the movie makes a convincing case that the Indian tradition was one explicitly drawn upon by Charlie Patton, one of the giants of Delta Blues.  But Im getting ahead of myself. The movie, directed by  Catherine Bainbridge with  Alfonso Maiorana, begins with Wray. And the section devoted to him is actually the weakest one in the movie. As if wanting to convince the viewer as to its authoritativeness, it mixes scintillating archival footage of the badass guitarist, from clean-cut-with-pomaded-hair s incarnation to leather-clad s Gibson SG mangler with a parade of talking heads talking about how significant Rumble was. I enjoy hearing from Steven Van Zandt, the MCs  Wayne Kramer, Slash, music critic David Fricke et. al. as much as the next enthusiast, but after a while Im thinking, Instead of talking so much about Rumble, how about letting us actually HEAR more of it?   Its also peculiar that the movie drops Wray pretty much right after giving us the news that Rumble was banned from a host of radio stations, a signal accomplishment for an instrumental. The theme song of juvenile delinquency, Van Zandt says, delightedly. Wrays subsequent career was as action-packed and eccentric as any rock figure you can name, and it doesnt get played out here. Maybe theyre saving it for a separate documentary.   But the stories the film tells after Wrays are mostly well-done and frequently moving mini-movies. A section in New Orleans, featuring local hero Monk Boudreaux and several members of the Neville Brothers, is a superb prcis of the roots of that regions infectious music. Buffy Sainte Marie speaks of becoming a musician by happenstance, and suffering under a blacklist she wasnt even explicitly aware of for almost twenty years.  Robbie Robertson recount his procession from journeyman teen guitarist to  Bob Dylans wingman during his controversial switch from folk to rock. Be proud youre an Indian but be careful who you tell, he recalls his people advising him. The movie also examines the Indian roots in the work of Mildred Bailey, a pioneer for female jazz singers and a profound influence on some male superstars who came after her, one of whom,  Tony Bennett, appears in an interview.      And there are heartbreaking stories, especially the one of Jessie Ed Davis, the spectacular guitar player who worked with blues singer  Taj Mahal in the s. Allman Brothers Band member Butch Trucks recently told an interviewer that one reason the band long declined to put a studio recording of its rendition of Statesboro Blues on an album was they felt it was just a second-string copy of what Taj and Davis had done on their first album. Davis adoption by British rockers led to a high life that unfortunately plunged Davis into junkiedom. Cleaned up, Davis teamed with Native American activist and poet John Trudell for the great AKA Grafitti Man project. In the film, Trudell who was interviewed prior to his own  passing says of Davis, He set me on my way, and then he checked out.   The movie goes down byways you might not have expected: Taboo from Black Eyed Peas makes an appearance, and heavy metal shows up via both guitarist Steve Salas one of the movies executive producers and drummer Randy Castillo, who played with Ozzy. Their stories are among the movies most moving. Appropriately, Rumble ends at Standing Rock, North Dakota, with the sight of indigenous people protesting the Keystone pipeline, confronted by faceless authority figures who look ready to beat them down. The struggle continues. Were right and the world is wrong, as Robertson said he came to believe in the period when he and Bob Dylan were practically getting booed off the stage every night.   