American writerdirector  Steven Shainberg is an uncompromisingly idiosyncratic filmmaker, which is one reason, I infer, that hes only made four features in a career that began in . His commitment to pursuing his vision which, in part is invested in putting a highbrow gloss on what is generally considered genre material is entirely admirable in the abstract. Its in the material results department that things get dicey. His  debut, Hit Me, ostensibly adapted from a  Jim Thompson novel, was one of the most laboriously pretentious and tedious noir variations of its decade. Shainberg did hit paydirt with s  Secretary, a dominance-and-submission tale that applied erotic-dimestore-paperback stylings to a  Mary Gaitskill short story, and had career-high performances from  James Spader and  Maggie Gyllenhaal. s Fur misfired badly, ostentatiously applying overextended metaphor to a consideration of the life and art of Diane Arbus.   Rupture is Shainbergs first film from his own original story, although said story contains a lot of familiar elements.  Noomi Rapace plays Renee, a single mom of Canadian origin stuck in Middle America trying to do the best she can with a rebellious tween son and a terrifically unpleasant ex-husband. Early in the film, feeds from small video cameras show that Renee is under surveillance' a small device clamped on to one of her cars tires suggests even more sinister goings-on. Sure enough, a blowout sends Renee to the side of the road and also to a rather elaborately staged abduction, during which her face is wrapped in shiny black duct tape.  Why shiny black, you may ask. Indeed. As it eventually becomes clear that Renee ought to be delivered to her captors in good health, the better for them to manipulate it, youd think that her handling might call for more actual care. But, you know, shiny black duct tape looks cool and threatening. Soon Renee is strapped down, hard, to a metal gurney, which makes a lot of metallic noises as she bangs her body against it. Shes in a room with a triple-deadbolt lock that makes a neat Bang! Bang! Bang! clang whenever its shut. The lighting of the room is peach-purple and the walls look like rotting meat. The production design is a tired mix of clich and dink. A couple of seeming functionaries, played by  Michael Chiklis and  Lesley Manville, show up, don silly rubber goggled with extended lens holders, and phone in some menace. A fellow prisoner gibbers to Renee through a heating vent, mentioning something called G-ten-twelve-X. When she repeats the letters and numbers to her captors, one of them says If you find out what that is then youve made real progress.  Curiouser and curiouser then if, as it happens, you wind up caring. This movie did not turn that trick for me. Eventually Renee does break free from the gurney, and goes crawling through the air vents, and witnesses the torture, physical and psychological, of the other presumable kidnap victims. Which goes on for what seems like  straight minutes its not, but it sure feels it and is put into some kind of relief by the possibility that its all being staged for Renees benefit anyway. Its not involving' its not scary' its just kind of miserable. When the ultimate purpose of Renees ordeal comes to light I dont think its a spoiler to comment that its like a self-empowerment seminar scripted by M. Night Shyamalan the compensation for the aforementioned misery seems scant indeed. 