Fernando Coimbras Sand Castle offers too little to the War is Hell genre to be noteworthy. Its a true story, and so that has some inherent value, and the young cast is relatively strong, especially a few stand-outs, but weve seen too many similar stories in the decade-and-a-half since  for this one to register as anything special. On a production level, its surprisingly flat, as if its story was strong enough to overcome a lack of visual language. Sadly, its just not.   The most interesting thing about Sand Castle is when it takes place. Its protagonist, Private Matt Ocre  Nicholas Hoult enlisted in the reserves to help pay for college  in July . Of course, two months later, the world changed. The film opens with an Ocre so desperate to get out of combat that he slams his hand in a car door. It doesnt work. Hes quickly dispatched to Baghdad, where we meet this films cast of military characters, led by the tough but rational Sgt. Harper  Logan Marshall-Green.  Three months after an intense firefight that ends with an Apache helicopter producing American-brand devastation, Ocre and his team are sent to a small town called Baqubah. Theyre there to fix a water pumping station so the local villagers dont die of thirst. Of course, the station needs fixing because the U.S. forces bombed it. And, of course, some of the locals dont want the American soldiers anywhere near them. And so an interesting dynamic develops, one in which Sand Castle becomes something of an allegory for U.S. foreign policy cleaning up a mess we made and one that reflects how those Oorah days after  in which it felt, at least to some, that the United States was going to help save the Middle East soon fell into quicksand. Ocre is increasingly aware of the futility of their very presence in Baqubah. When someone says in the final act, after a brutal loss of life, Well, a rough night, but its not for nothing, its tempting to disagree about the last part.   The young cast of Sand Castle delivers a mixed bag of performances. Hoult is one of those actors who needs a strong director to bring out his best work and Coimbra doesnt seem able to do that. Hes too flat and uninteresting as a protagonist. His most interesting scene is his first, when he slams his hand in the Humvee door. After that, we dont really get to know him the way we need to. Far more interesting is Marshall-Green as the more resilient and experienced soldier. Hes a very intriguing young actor who I hope to see more of soon. As for  Henry Cavill, first surprising in a buzz cut and beard, he barely makes an impact, which has kind of become his norm. Better in the supporting cast are a slightly unhinged  Glen Powell "Everybody Wants Some!!" and a practical  Parker Sawyers Southside with You.   Ultimately, the biggest problems with Sand Castle are familiarity and form or lack thereof. As for the first, weve seen this story before, at least a dozen times. Sure, the particulars are different, but the futility of war, especially in the  st  century, has been well documented. And theres just not enough new to this variation to justify the lack of character development and visual flair. Its too routine in nearly every way. Sure, theres a performance here or there, and a conversation-worthy topic about how wartime was different in  than today, but neither of those are nearly enough to carry a film thats the last thing a war movie can possibly be: boring. 