Ive always found something morbidly fascinating about watching talented actors and actresses give their all to a project that doesnt deserve it. I start to try to figure out if and when they knew it was a disaster. Was it during the extended kidney theft urban legend bit? Was it when the director asked him to play a scene in which his tights get ripped off by a Mexican woman calling herself Sarah McLachlan? Was it during the scene in which a child falsely accuses them of molestation? When did these very funny and undeniably talented TV actors know that Search Party was a disaster? Delayed almost two full years since its original release date and now barely released after being out on DVD in Europe for over a year, one gets the feeling that Search Party wouldnt even be getting its minor release if stars T.J. Miller amp'  Thomas Middleditch hadnt proved such resonant comic chemistry on HBOs Silicon Valley and the always funny Adam Pally hadnt connected in films like last years  Night Owls and the upcoming Sundance hit Joshy. Otherwise, I imagine Search Party would have been buried in the failed comedy cemetery in which it belongs. One can almost see the thinking process that led to Search Party. Get a bunch of talented TV actors together, hire a director who has written buddy comedies  Scot Armstrong, who has a co-writing credit on The Hangover, Part II and a story credit on  Old School, and why not pick up  Tim Orr, the cinematographer from  Pineapple Express for good measure? It will write itself! No, it wont. Nardo Thomas Middleditch is going to marry Tracy Shannon Woodward of Raising Hope but has a stoned conversation that leads buddy Jason T.J. Miller to believe that he should put a stop to the wedding despite the more reasonable Evans  Adam Pally protestations. In Hangover casting terms, Middleditch ends up being the wacky  Zach Galifianakis, Pally is undeniably the  Ed Helms, and Miller is the reckless  Bradley Cooper. When Jason breaks the wedding up, Tracy goes on the honeymoon anyway, leading Nardo to try to follow her to Mexico. Before you know it, Nardo is calling Jason amp' Evan because hes been carjacked, left naked in a small Mexican border town. Ignoring the advice of his co-worker Elizabeth  Alison Brie and boss MacDonaldson  Lance Reddick, Evan gets essentially hijacked by Jason to help out the third spoke in their friendship wheel. Along the way, they run into  Krysten Ritter Marvels  Jessica Jones, Jason Mantzoukas The League,  Jon Glaser Parks and Recreation and J.B. Smoove Curb Your Enthusiasm. Ive seen awards shows with less TV stars in the room. And yet none of them are given anything interesting to do. Armstrong and co-writers  Mike Gagerman amp'  Andrew Waller keep throwing their protagonists into increasingly bizarre situations in the hope something will register as funny. When the film gets to an EXTENDED bit that riffs on the kidney-stealing urban legend at the end of the first act, you can just watch all potential for it to become something interesting dissipate. This is the point that most people will change the channel on cable. Its the kind of script that features a grown man lying on the floor in a moment of depression and saying Im a dirty cum rag, and cant go to Mexico without using  La Bamba,  La Cucaracha and a man covered in cocaine in the same scene. It eventually devolves into one of those weird, Huh? movies in that I never thought Id see J.B. Smoove lick cocaine off Thomas Middleditchs face or Jason Mantzoukas shoot an arrow into Adam Pallys ass. But there are a lot of things here I never thought Id see that just arent funny. Search Party is one of those stunning failures in relation to its cast's talent. To their credit, Middleditch and Pally are asked to do a lot of physical comedy by their director the Silicon Valley star spends most of the movie butt-naked that still above either photoshopped in the shorts or it was an alternate take for airplane and network TV versions that will never happen and theyre always game for everything, further proving their willingness to do whatever takes to get a laugh. Miller, Ritter, Mantzoukas, Smoove, Brie I love this cast, even if I most certainly do not love this movie. In that sense, Search Party pays off on my morbid fascination, proving that even if you invite a lot of talented people to the set, the result wont work if you dont give them a way to show why theyre considered talented. 