Hope for the best, expect the worst.  Mel Brooks popularized that adage in a funny song he co-wrote for one of his most amusing films, the relatively obscure   The Twelve Chairs. Its a useful sentiment in general, but, for the film reviewer, something that applies most particularly in the first two months of the new year, which, at least as far as studio product is concerned, represent a dumping ground for problematic product or just plain unmarketable dreck.  Given the fact that its U.S. release date was moved not once, but twice, and that it now finds itself occupying a date in the aforementioned dumping ground, one might expect the Sergei-Bodrov-directed Seventh Son, a medieval fantasy tale with a strong Young Adult stress in its plotting not surprising, as its based on a YA book, the first of three so far featuring the same characters, as is the thing these days to be pretty bad. But, surprise! One doesnt want to damn the movie with faint praise by saying its not that bad, but thats kind of the most objectively accurate description of it, in all honesty. Subjectively, though? This critic, whos an unabashed fan of the myth-mash-up monster movies of the s and s that featured a plethora of stop-motion-animated monsters and such, found himself rather enjoying more than a few portions of the movie, which indeed features a plethora of computer-animated monsters that at least seem to have been inspired by the work of such old-school tech masters as Ray Harryhausen.  Another attraction is that the adult leads of the picture are  Jeff Bridges and  Julianne Moore. Bridges plays a righteous witch-hunting spook hes also a Knight of some secret sacred order or another while Moore plays a near-omnipotent witch whos going to use the once-in-a-hundred-years night of the blood moon to make herself  omnipotent. Of course these two characters have a romantic back-story. Of course they do. Since every other film critic writing about this movie is going to make some kind of I didnt think the sequel to Big Lebowski would be THIS weird joke, Ill spare you my effort. It is, however, a pleasure to see The Dude and Maude in a clinch once more, even if Bridges mumble-mouthed, grizzled hero is more like his True Grit Rooster Coburn crossed with  Richard Harris in  Camelot, had Richard Harris been  in Camelot. In other words, its a truly eccentric performance, and why not. As for Moore, she looks gorgeous and slithers with enough menace that you can almost convince yourself that her dragon-morph isn't a special effect.  The YA aspect is provided by the spooks new apprentice, the titular seventh son  Tom Ward  Ben Barnes, who, of course, falls for a teen witch half-witch, more accurately' the condition of half-witchdom plays a crucial albeit entirely predictable part in the plot whos the daughter of Moores right-hand witch. The standard complications ensue, but theyre pretty easy to gloss over if you just wanna get off on the fellas battling man-bears and multi-armed swordsman and a bald-pated guy who can make ax-blades out of his hands when hes NOT being a dragon. At such points, and particularly during a cliff-diving-and-waterfall scene in which Tom goes up against a very stubborn giant, Seventh Son builds up the goofy charm of an old-school Saturday afternoon matinee. The tech credits, as they call them in the trades, tell you why: the effects were designed by original  Star Wars guy John Dykstra, and the sumptuous art direction is by Dante Ferretti, whos worked magic for the likes of Fellini, De Palma, and Scorsese.  Olivia Williams and  Djimon Hounsou are welcome components in the supporting cast, and the whole thing is over and done with in a good deal less than two hours. A towering cinematic achievement? Hardly. But not entirely unsatisfying if this particular genre itch needs some scratching. 