Like most people today, Judy was a cynic and was offended by the slightest hint of fantasy. So reads a portion of the opening text of the new movie directed and co-written with his now former wife, Louise Stratten by  Peter Bogdanovich. This clunky observation, I think, misreads the modern or post-modern condition rather grievously. Cynicism today is in fact fed by fantasy, or at least delusion' its a mask that affects to connote a reckoning with The Real, which in fact merely enables its wearers to distract themselves from the true horror of the world as it is today. But anyway.  Judy, played by  Illeana Douglas, is a Hollywood reporter, interviewing newly minted star Isabella Patterson, or Izzy who, as played by the nonetheless appealing  Imogen Poots, speaks with a thick approximation of a Brooklyn accent thats meant to evoke Judy Holliday in  Born Yesterday or Bells Are Ringing but doesnt even get within swinging distance of Madonna in Whos That Girl. Accents arent even the main problem with Shes Funny, in which Bogdanovich tries to merge the multiple-New-York-storylined romantic comedy antics of his underappreciated  masterpiece yes, it is They All Laughed with the backstage-at-the-theatre-full-of-lunatics antics of Noises Off. The movie sure is good-hearted enough. Its a labor of love, it would seem, for all involved. Several younger-filmmaker admirers of Bogdanovich the one-time tyro behind  The Last Picture Show and other outstanding films of the Easy Riders, Raging Bulls era teamed up here to produce the long-gestating picture. Noah Baumbach,  Wes Anderson and  George Drakoulias are all credited as executive producers. Their clout, plus Bogdanovichs reputation, and the goodwill hes garnered over years of working as an actor, no doubt helped pull together a wonderful cast, including  Owen Wilson,  Kathryn Hahn,  Rhys Ifans,  Will Forte, Jennifer Aniston,  Austin Pendleton, and a lifeboats worth of recognizable cameo players. On paper, the premise of the movie is not untenable. Owen Wilson plays theater director Arnold, in New York after working on a Hollywood picture, about to embark on a new stage project starring superstar pal Seth Ifans, Arnolds own wife Delta Hahn, and a supporting player in the role of a hooker to be named later. Speaking of hookers, Arnolds got a weird habit: he likes to solicit call girls, take them to a nice dinner, boink the bejesus out of them You are the mostattentive kinda lover, Izzy says to Arnold after their sole amorous pairing and then gift them with ,, telling them to give up The Life and go pursue their dreams. He couches this pitch around a speech featuring the catchphrase Squirrels to the nuts, which had at one point been the title of the movie. One marvels at a world in which even the most successful of contemporary theater directors could repeatedly depart with  large with such indiscrimination. And thats part of the problem with this movie. Despite its preponderance of mullets among its younger players, They All Laughed was at least a little conversant enough with the then-realities of New York City life' as such, it could present a recognizable world. The level of fantasy to which this movie actively aspires is so idealistic as to be laughable, but not in an entirely good way. Old-movie lover Izzy at one point says to Judy, about a playwright who falls in love with her, He was exactly what I imagined a playwright to be, and he was the  Arthur Miller to my Marilyn. No, no, a thousand times no. Too many times the characters in this movie sprint across the line separating quirky charm from know-somethingish affectation, and then stay on the wrong side of it.    And this erodes the sunny farcical tone to which Shes Funny That Way aspires. Its as if somewhere along the way this wannabe champagne got spiked with eager-to-please bennies. There are some good, funny bits, one involving a cab drivers vivid protest against having to sit through a feuding couples disagreement. Anistons reluctant therapist character, weirdly shrill at first, actually gets funnier over the course of the movie, while Wilson underplays nicely throughout. He could have been the pictures anchor, but the frenetic machinations of the plot spin it away from him. Then theres the finale, in which the viewer ignorant of old movies gets a vivid primer in Lubitsch from a real-life filmmaker and film buff. Its kind of cute and kind ofweird, which would be fine, only it doesnt know how weird it is. Given the narrow range of this movies overall achievement, I imagine its preaching here will only reach the already converted. 