Is it wrong to swoon over a soulful-eyed animated Cockney ape named Johnny who is built like  Dwayne Johnson and croons like a boy-band angel? If it is, I dont want to be right. His silky and all-too-brief version of Sam Smiths Stay With Me gave me shivers. Not that my fondness for this leather-jacketed gorilla of my dreams voiced by Brit actor  Taron Egerton of  Kingsman: The Secret Service and  Eddie the Eagle just one of several standouts among the warbling menagerie that populates  Sing has totally blinded me from acknowledging that this jukebox musical barely has an original anthropomorphic bone in its fur-bearing body. Dont go into  Sing expecting it to be some kind of cartoon answer to  La La Land with animal wise-crackers stepping in for snappy human toe tappers, despite its similar heartfelt portrayal of the highs and lows of showbiz and sunny candy-hued cityscape. But, luckily, its makers know all too well how to fully exploit the power of a catchy pop song. There are more than  dynamite ditties from the Beatles and Irving Berlin to Beyonce and Carly Rae Jepsen exploited to their full crowd-pleasing potential as the choices smartly span the decades. On the surface, this story of koala bear impresario Buster Moon  Matthew McConaughey, nicely capturing this pint-size showman who is part huckster, part dreamer and part the actors exuberant strip-club emcee from  Magic Mike who decides to give his run-down theater a boost by staging a talent contest is simply plugging into the ongoing popularity of reality shows such as American Idol and The Voice. But directorwriter  Garth Jennings live-action cult faves The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy,"  Son of Rambow expanding upon a concept conceived by Illumination CEO and founder Chris Meledandri whose animation house was also behind the summer success  The Secret Life of Pets, and the Minions phenom relies on an even older tradition. Namely, those Hey, lets put on a show movies from the s and s that paired a youthful  Judy Garland and  Mickey Rooney as they saved the day with song and dance. There is a reason its a tried and true underdog formula, and it mostly works here. Turns out there are plenty of amateur hopefuls looking for a break in  Sing, whose balmy palm-tree-lined urban setting is never named, especially after Moons elderly assistant Miss Crawly a crone-like stooped green lizard with a glass eyeball whose comical croak is provided by Jennings mistakenly ups the prize ante on a flier announcing the competition from , to ,. The arks worth of would-be contestants that storm the theater to audition range from a trio of bunnies who twerk their fuzzy behinds to the naughty  Anaconda to a Teutonic pig nailing Bad Romance in a tight gold-glitter jumpsuit. Buster quickly whittles down the choices to five finalists and, just as they do on every TV singingcontest, they all have an emotional back story to share. There is Rosita, a porcine stay-at-home mom to  little piggies, whose inner diva is buried under her domestic drudgery  Reese Witherspoon, dusting off the vocal skills that helped her win an Oscar for s  Walk the Line' the aforementioned Johnny, who must balance his performing ambitions with his hoodlum fathers insistence that he mans the getaway car for a gang of robbers' Mike, a shady white mouse  Seth MacFarlane in Rat Pack mode who plays Dave Brubecks Take Five on his sax for spare change and belts out ballads by Sinatra' Ash, a porcupine punk-rock teen girl  Scarlett Johansson, with a husky growl that rattles walls whose less-talented boyfriend is ticked that she was picked as a solo act' and, last but not least, Meena, a shy elephant with abundant abilities supplied by up-and-comer  Tori Kelly who must conquer her stage fright before she makes the move from her stage hand duties. Jennings makes a wise choice to eschew loading up on pseudo-hip pop-culture gags, a sometimes irksome DreamWorks trait, or insisting on giving characters a heroic arc, like most Disney fare. Instead, he goes for old-school Warner Brothers visual humor such as how Miss Crawlys fake eye tends to pop out at inopportune times or Rositas inventive DIY way of dealing with her childcare crisis. He allows his camera to slip and slide around the set pieces, including a rooftop escape route that would do King Kong proud, and knows how to stage the singingacts, dramatic lighting and all. But all this is just a build-up to  Sings crowning glory of a -minute finale. Just when Busters plans all go kaput in a sequence that rivals  The Poseidon Adventure, a heavenly voice is heard. And, suddenly, the contest takes a back seat to simply celebrating and sharing ones vocal gifts to bring joy to others with a full-blown concert as these critters break loose with well-curated classics by the likes of  Stevie Wonder and  Elton John. That  Jennifer Hudson briefly lends her glorious melodic tones to a regal grande dame sheep, a role she shares with  Jennifer Saunders of TVs Absolutely Fabulous, is apt since the last time I heard audiences rapturously cheering a filmed musical performance was for her dynamic take on And I Am Telling You I'm Not Going in Dreamgirls. Dont be surprised if those sitting next to you at  Sing react in the same way to some of these showstoppers. 