Sleight is an ambitious genre mash-up about a young street magician that pulls off a nifty bit of trickery itself. With his debut feature, director and co-writer J.D. Dillard deftly mixes intimate sci-fi thrills with dramatic, big-city dangers. The combination that kept entering my mind as I watched it was  Chronicle meets  Dope, both in terms of its substance and what it similarly achieves with a minimal budget. Sleight also has been described frequently as a superhero origin story and sure, you could look at it that way, in that its about a young man growing up, discovering the full breadth of his powers and hopefully using them for good. But what might be the most dazzling feat of all is the lead performance from  Jacob Latimore as Bo, a promising young man who puts his dreams on hold and starts selling drugs to support his little sister  Storm Reid after their mothers death. Glimmers of his charisma were visible in last years laughably self-serious ensemble drama  Collateral Beauty. Here, with stronger writing and a more focused approach, Latimore is free to shine. He has a magnetic screen presence mixed with a down-to-Earth directness. And while hes got swagger for days, hes just as compelling when his character is quietly contemplating his next move. Sleight, which Dillard co-wrote with  Alex Theurer, efficiently establishes its world within a very specific Los Angeles setting. A voicemail recording and a glance around Bos bedroom let us know he was once an accomplished student with a bright future in electrical engineering. Now, hes wowing tourists on the streets with card and coin tricks by day and working as a gofer for would-be, big-time drug dealer Angelo  Dul Hill by night. The role is quite a departure for Hill, whos mostly played nice guys' here, he can be frighteningly charming, but increasingly hes just plain frightening. At first, Bo sells a little bit here and there to artists and dabbling college kids. Some coke, some Molly. He works the clubs. He gathers intel. But when Angelo realizes another drug dealer is brazenly moving in on his turf, he calls on Bo whom he considers a protg to take part in the kind of violent activity thats totally antithetical to Bos nature. In the tradition of slow-burning dramas like  A Simple Plan, Sleight explores what happens when an ordinary person gets caught up in extraordinary circumstances, and the lengths to which hell go to keep himself from going under. Dillard doesnt overdramatize this conundrum' he doesnt need to. You can easily imagine how one bad decision could lead to another and then another, even as you convince yourself that youre doing it all for the right reasons. And Dillard increases tension by keeping the action simple but escalating the pacing at a steady clip.   The deeper Bo gets, the more his sense of isolation becomes palpable. Because for a while, at least he cant tell anyone the secret behind his magical powers. That includes his inquisitive sister, Tina, with whom he has a warm rapport' his vivacious and supportive girlfriend, Holly  Seychelle Gabriel, whom he met while performing in L.A.s charming Larchmont shopping district' and his across-the-way neighbor, Georgi  Sasheer Zamata of  Saturday Night Live, who serves as an auntie figure to the family and Bos much-needed voice of reason. Those hidden abilities come in handy no pun intended when its finally time for Bo to confront Angelo and seize control of his life. Ironically, though, as Bo gets stronger, the film gets weaker' when the action gets bigger, the emotions feel smaller. Dillard was wise not to try and pull off anything too massive or spectacular from an effects perspective on an indie budget, but what he did come up with for his climactic conclusion feels rushed. Still, its an auspicious debut from this up-and-coming filmmaker, who once worked as a receptionist for J.J. Abrams production company, Bad Robot. He surely has many more tricks up his sleeve.   