Snatched is the highest of high-concept comedies.  Goldie Hawn and  Amy Schumer star as a polar-opposite mother and daughter who get kidnapped while reluctantly vacationing together in Ecuador. Its a mismatched-buddy comedy. Its a fish-out-of-water comedy. Its a raucous girl-power comedy. But its not much more than a concept. Hawn and Schumer are stuck playing barely-there characters stumbling from one wacky scenario to the next. A cadre of kooks helps them along the way. Both women supposedly shift away from their comfort zones and closer to each other in the process. The end. If youre headed on your own vacation, Snatched would be a sporadically amusing way to pass the time on the plane, I suppose. As an exercise in afternoon cable-channel surfing while dozing in and out from cold medication, its harmless. But as a summer-launching comic adventure, its a frustrating waste of everyones abilities. The iconic Hawn hasnt graced the silver screen in  years  not since s  The Banger Sisters. Here, shes a cautious cat lady named Linda who inexplicably displays a preternatural, calm fortitude when the going gets tough. Hawn has elevated similarly throwaway material throughout her career Foul Play,  Overboard, Bird on a Wire, and its certainly lovely to see her again, but why come out of retirement for this? The expert timing remains, but shes awkwardly hemmed-in, and you long to see her burst forth with her signature silliness. Schumer, meanwhile, plays yet another version of her well-honed persona, which she did far more effectively and to a surprisingly emotional extent in s  Trainwreck. Emily is boozy and blowsy. Shes selfish and vapid, but she can be fun. And her underlying insecurity and talent for tossed-off, self-deprecating asides make her an unexpectedly endearing figure. Linda and Emily get tested repeatedly in Snatched, though the actresses playing them certainly dont. But they have their moments together especially in the films early going which provide a tantalizing glimpse of what might have been with snappier direction and stronger material. Its as if the mere idea of Hawn and Schumer playing a squabbling mother and daughter were enough. Its not. Director  Jonathan Levine has shown far greater skill in balancing a variety of genres and tones with his previous films, including the great comedy-drama   and the horror-comedy  Warm Bodies. Here, his mixture of action and laughs never quite gels. Theres a lifelessness to the physicality and a shriekiness to the humor. Similarly, screenwriter  Katie Dippold has shown a knack for creating strong and delightfully strange women with her work on  The Heat and last summers all-female Ghostbusters reboot. But with Snatched, the characters never really deviate from their types until the very end, when theyre called upon to have a sudden and conciliatory change of heart.  Wanda Sykes and  Joan Cusack show up from time to time as the overly prepared, platonic life partners who help Linda and Emily out of their various jams, but their dynamic feels half-baked, too.   Snatched starts with promise, though. The delusional Emily gets fired from her nowhere retail job and dumped by her burgeoning rock-star boyfriend a very funny  Randall Park in quick succession. Theres a sly, understated nature to the humor here a rhythm that steadily sneaks up on you. The two had been planning a romantic getaway to Ecuador, and since the trip is non-refundable, she has to find someone else to join her. After all her girlfriends reject her offer, she coaxes the divorced Linda, who still lives in the familys suburban home with Emilys nerdy, agoraphobic brother an amusingly odd  Ike Barinholtz, to travel with her to paradise. But Emilys flirtation at the hotel bar with a charming and hunky Brit  Tom Bateman leads to peril for her and her mom, as the two find themselves the victims of a kidnapping plot by interchangeably menacing, brown-skinned bad guys. Somewhere in here, Snatched might be trying to say something about the propensity of pampered Americans to travel abroad without ever daring to immerse themselves in the local culture, but it doesnt do it in the most thoughtful or articulate way. From here, mother and daughter bicker and bungle their way through an escape and subsequent hijinks. Its all pretty obvious stuff, and not nearly as outlandish as it strains to be. But an escalating side bit involving phone calls between Emilys freaked-out brother and an unmotivated State Department official  Bashir Salahuddin provides some off-kilter laughs, and it hints at the kind of movie Snatched might have been with a little more daring. Similarly, an interlude with a self-serious, self-styled adventurer in the Amazon  Christopher Meloni offers some welcome surprises. But if the journey is the destination, Snatched never really goes anywhere.  