As I tried to make clear in my review of  Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck, and  Roger Ebert stated over and over again, its not what a movie is about, its how it is about it. That film took a deep, archival approach to Cobains life, using home movies as a window into the trajectory of an artist. While one can debate the quality of Nirvanas music or importance of Cobains legacy, thats not truly relevant to how successful the filmmaking is or not. I bring this up because Soaked in Bleach, the second Cobain documentary of the year, albeit with a drastically different focus, conveys a hot-button topic about which people feel very strongly. And yet analysis of Benjamin Statlers film shouldnt really hinge on whether or not you believe Courtney Love killed  Kurt Cobain. I do not, for the record. It comes down to filmmaking. And this is a bad film, filled with awkward reenactments, poorly designed graphics, scripted interview segments, ominous music and enough jumping to conclusions that Im surprised someone didnt throw out their back. The thrust of Soaked in Bleach is upfront and simple the Seattle Police Department didnt investigate the death of Kurt Cobain properly and there was enough suspicious behavior before Cobains body was found and enough inconsistencies in the death scene that further investigation is warranted. Most of the film comes from recordings provided by investigator Tom Grant, who serves as the films main interview subject as well. Grant was hired in the days before Cobains body was found by Courtney Love and hes notorious for claiming that he was at Cobains house the day before his body was found with friend Dylan Carlson, and neither looked in the greenhouse to find the lead singer. Grant definitely has an interesting story to tell, and his audio recordings of conversations with Love reveal odd behavior on her part before her husbands suicide. However, odd behavior on the part of junkies is not uncommon. Much of Soaked in Bleach consists of reenactments of Statler and Grants version of events, often accompanied by audio recordings of the real Love, Grant, etc. Character actor  Daniel Roebuck plays Grant to Sarah Scotts Courtney Love and these scenes play like a bad true crime series on ID Discovery shows with names like "Deadly Women" or "Unusual Suspects". Love is always half-naked, doing drugs the film is a blatant smear campaign from scene one and would have been much stronger without the bad taste that leaves and every meeting is in a dark, smoky room while she wears a nightie. Its a filmmaking technique that constantly sabotages any realistic arguments that the film could make by virtue of exaggeration and inconsistency. About those inconsistencies like a conspiracy theorist who has had a few too many at a bar, Statler and Grant are constantly leaping over logic to get to their conclusions. They easily dismiss Nirvanas lyrics as having no bearing at all on the theory that Cobain was depressed but they value the fact that he never mentioned suicide to old hometown friends. They stage a major scene in which Carlson is supposed to talk to Grant but chooses to shoot up with Love first as evidence of a conspiracy between the two instead of just, you know, addiction. And they miss the biggest aspect of the Cobain death the investigation could have been incompetent AND Kurt Cobain could have killed himself. Both things can be true. But Soaked in Bleach takes the approach that the failure of the Seattle PD to process pictures is one of the greatest proofs that Cobain didnt kill himself.   Again, its not about the conclusions of Soaked in Bleach but how theyre reached and presented. Statler does his subject and his leading man in Grant a disservice through exaggerated filmmaking every interview subject is shot in low light on a stormy night, for example. A thorough documentary would present both sides and would do so without such demonizing and cartoonish reenactments of what the filmmaker believes is the truth. By going to such extremes, Statler sabotages his own purpose. He wants to make a film about what really happened, but none of it looks or sounds real. 