Paul Harrills debut feature,  Something, Anything, is the kind of movie you feel protective of even as you are watching it. Its rhythms and inflections are so subtle, it almost comes as a surprise just how compelling they ultimately become. It is an unmistakably small film, but as the story builds up and the characters come into focus, you know you are witnessing something rare and precious: an American independent film thats understated and intelligent, as well as utterly free of showiness and calculation. The main character is Peggy  Ashley Shelton, a realtor from Knoxville, Tennessee, first seen accepting a marriage proposal from her long-time sweetheart Mark  Bryce Johnson. A pretty, agreeable and slightly introverted woman, Peggy is good at her job and seems a perfect match for successful Mark, until a miscarriage and a casual breach of trust put an end to their union all within the brisk ten opening minutes of the movie. After losing the baby, Peggy recoils into herself: the Southern middle-class world she took for granted suddenly becomes unfamiliar to her, maybe even slightly repugnant in its focus on possessions and status. An unexpected sympathy note from a high-school friend named Tim  Linds Edwards, a Kentucky-based Trappist monk representing a life choice radically different from her own, pushes Peggy into a new direction. She quits her job in favor of a lesser-paid position at a local library, cancels her phone service and starts looking into the possibility of monastic living. A reunion with Tim complicates matters, as do Marks repeated offers of getting back together and trying to start a family once again. Far from a standard-issue indie in its basic premise, Harrills first outing as a writerdirector is very mature in its treatment of a subject from which movies often shy away: the awakening of a religious impulse in a secular, educated adult. Unlike such recruiting posters as the recent Heaven is For Real or the  chestnut The Song of Bernadette, Something, Anything is close in spirit to  Fred Zinnemanns great  The Nuns Story, in which a particular womans religious vocation was treated with all the attentiveness and respect one would hope for when dealing with anyones sense of purpose in life. As for Peggys choices, they are mostly met with incredulity or derision by her friends and peers, as if a pay cut and cancelling ones cellular plan were forms of self-mutilation at the very least. Peggy gradually if gently retreats into contemplation, and we are always aware of the social price shes paying, as in a scene in which her judgmental friends try to push her back into Marks arms it is a testament to Harrills humane touch that the friends are never shown as bullies. At one point, Peggy reveals that she used to be a competitive cheerleader, and there is indeed something of a cheerleaders poise and diligence about her. Its there even in the religious pursuit we witness: the subtle humor of Something, Anything comes from the fact that Peggy is loaning out books and making notes on the nature of prayer almost as if she were preparing for some spiritual baton-twirling marathon. She cannot help herself' her seriousness about her choices is her armor and one much more lasting than the blood-red nail polish we see her apply in the first shots of the film, when she still defines herself by other peoples perception of who she is.   For a movie focused so attentively on its main character, its remarkable that we dont really see Peggy explain her motives to anyone, except to herself in brief glimpses of her diary entries appearing on screen the way inspirational quotes did in another recent exploration of a womans spiritual journey,  Wild. This is a film about making complex life choices thats free of excessive talk and excessive actions alike even the initial separation from Peggys husband happens off-screen and we are spared all the bitter words that may have been uttered between the couple. It would be too much to call Something, Anything a story of religious conversion things never go so far, since Peggy at one point adopting her given name, Margaret, as a sign of the change she underwent is only just starting to explore her spiritual side. The script is not pushing her to make any steady commitment to a denomination or a church. In fact, theres a suggestion that what draws Peggy towards monastic life is less the divinity it is centered on than the seclusion it offers, which only adds to the overall subtlety of the film. Lensed by  Kunitaro Ohi and edited by  Jennifer Lilly whose work already stood out in Rebecca Thomas spiritually-minded Electric Children from two years back, the film has a nice, compact feeling to it its a movie you just slip into, like you would a pair of brand-new sneakers that surprise you by how great they feel and how far they will take you. What makes it into a real winner is its sustained tone, which is every bit as serene as the life that Peggy starts pursuing. Its small wonder that the opening motto from a poem by the thcentury poet Christina Rosetti Who has seen the wind?  Neither you nor I'  But when the trees bow down their heads,  The wind is passing by makes perfect sense in a work of such theological humility and simple, unforgettable beauty. 