There's almost nothing to most " Tales from the Crypt"-stylehorror omnibus films. These portmanteau projects usually coast on the flimsy but deceptively adequatecharms of their superior segments, since all the mediocre stories must do is compare nicely with the other segments. That's the beauty of the omnibus film's short story format: to be good enough, all you need is good hook, whether it's a premise, memorable line, orsome decent special effects. I am a sucker for this type of low-stakesentertainment, so it comes as no surprise that I enjoyed"Southbound," a clever, though characteristicallyinconsistent, collection of fivenarratively-relatedshort films about seedycharacters who discover they're trapped in Hell. "Southbound" has one killer segment, and then four that are totally OK. That's anaverage ratio for these types of movies, as so many of their creatorstake the abbreviated lengthof their respectiveshorts as an excuseto slack off as with the headache that is "The ABCs of Death". Still, "Southbound" is a prime example of a horror omnibus film: even the weaker segments havesomething to recommend them. Since"Southbound" succumbs to many of the usual pitfalls and pleasures of the horror omnibus format,it's not surprising that the film's weakest segments areitsfirst and lastentries.The introductory short is OK since it only has to set up the film's over-arching premise. Two men drive down an open stretch of deserted country road, trying tofranticallyescape floating wraiths that we can only see in the distance. A cornpone evangelical DJ who else but indie horror filmmakericon Larry Fessenden warns listeners that they won'tleave thebrimstone-paved road that they're on without a fight. And each time the pair tries to move past a nondescript gas station, they wind up back where they started, while their tormentors keep catching up. This opening salvo has acute premise and fun low-budget special effects, a specialty of directing collective  Radio Silence " Devil's Due" and the last segment in " VHS". Radio Silence also directs the last segment, which similarly has some good visceral jolts masked robbers attack a nuclear family at a road-side motel! and wrapsthe film's over-arching narrativeup a littletoo neatly those hybridcactusdeath's-headwraiths from the first segment!. There's not much in either of Radio Silence's contributions, but there doesn't really need to be. These are only the moments when the film takes off andtouches back down to Earth. Thefilm's second entry its first real story is well-directed but conceptuallyobvious. Three girls driving around in a lime-green Volkswagen busget a flat tire, and wind up hitching up with a creepy  Ray BradburyNorman Rockwell-style family of "old-fashioned," clean-living Satanists. You know that this family worships Luciferbased on their cartoonishly menacingbehavior, like the way they worship their "Master" when they say before-dinnerGrace. Written and directed by newcomer  Roxanne Benjamin, this entrywinks at viewers throughout and never goes anywhere you don't expect it to, thanks in no small part to constant references to a missing fourth girl that one of theMystery Van's owners may or may not have killed. But this is just the first leg of the film's trip, a kind of warm-up act. Skin-deep ambience and appreciably morbid humor like a weirdly addictive, albeit disgusting-looking "roast" that's served to the girls is enough when the segment doesn't demand muchmore from audiences. Benjamin's segment doesthematically set-up the film's best short, which ishelmed and written by  David Bruckner one of the co-creators of clever anti-technologyomnibus film "The Signal". This short, about a Good Samaritan whoattempts to save a badly-injured pedestrian he hit with his car while talking to his wife on his phone, is the only one disturbingenough to be memorable outside of the film's omnibus context. He scrambles around a ghost town while listening to a sweet-soundingEMT dispatcher, a concerned operator, and a demandingsurgeon as they walk him through the steps of saving the severelyinjured victim. Blood spurts, limbs crack, and incisions are made in pointedly grisly ways' the victim is treated like a human-shapednesting doll whose every layer is packed with gore and viscera. But again, while you know where Bruckner's segment is going,he gets you there with unholy conviction and ghoulish panache. If you see "Southbound," you should see it for this singular middle segment. The other fourstoriesare all fine enough, and will give you a pleasant, albeit short, trip to a foregone destination.   