The second the credits started rolling at the end of  Steve Jobs, I reached into my purse and did what so many other people in the theater did: I turned on my iPhone. Currently, Im writing this review on my MacBook Pro. Later this afternoon, once Ive brought my six-year-old son home from school, Ill try to deflect his demands to play Angry Birds Star Wars on the iPad. So yes, Steve Jobs has changed my life just as hes changed many millions of others on the planet. The devices he devised do what he hoped they would do: They make our lives easier. They are aesthetically appealing. They are our friends. Danny Boyles thrilling film, which takes place behind the scenes at three key product launches during the late Jobs career, begins with the Apple co-founder freaking out minutes before introducing the Macintosh in  because his team couldnt get it to say hello. It was nitpicky and obsessive qualities he was famous for but he was also onto something, as we now know: this idea of technology serving as a constant and comforting companion. All of which makes the fact that he was so coldly dismissive to the real-life people closest to him the people who actually loved him such a fascinating contradiction, one of many that Boyle, writer  Aaron Sorkin and star  Michael Fassbender explore with great ambition and lan. He insisted on micromanaging the tiniest details of his presentations making sure the console was a perfect black cube, down to the millimeter, at the  launch of his failed company, NeXT, or cajoling underlings to ignore fire code by shutting off the exit signs in the theater in hopes of achieving a dramatic darkness for his unveilings. But he couldnt control who was going to come at him in the moments before he took the stage, or what they would say, or what they would want, or how they would dare to invade his formidable brain to wreak havoc when all he wanted to do was maintain his carefully crafted faade of Zen cool. They include Apple co-founder and old friend Steve Wozniak played with great intelligence and pathos by  Seth Rogen' Apple CEO John Sculley  Jeff Daniels, the one-time father figure who would gain infamy for eventually firing Jobs' and Chrisann Brennan  Katherine Waterston, Jobs ex-girlfriend and the mother of his daughter, Lisa, whom he long refused to acknowledge as his or support financially. All three actresses playing Lisa at various ages give smart, distinctive performances, by the way  Makenzie Moss at ,  Ripley Sobo at  and  Perla Haney-Jardine at .   And of course, there is Fassbender himself, who doesnt really resemble Jobs in any physical way but rather embodies his drive, his restlessness. Fassbender has never shied away from playing damaged or difficult characters Shame,   Years a Slave, even the  X-Men prequels as a young Magneto but here, he has the added challenge of playing a revered, real-life figure over the span of  years, from long hair and bow tie to glasses and dad jeans. He never flinches from the arrogant and repulsive elements of this mans behavior, but theres an intensity to his presence and a directness in his eyes that make him not just compelling but commanding. He doesnt care whether you like him, and thats exciting. Through it all is  Kate Winslet as Joanna Hoffman, Jobs calm yet forceful right-hand woman and a much-needed voice of reason. Winslet gets a couple of great speeches, which she delivers with convincing power, totally unsurprisingly. Her exchanges with Fassbender are the films high points and almost a high-wire act' its a tricky thing making such dense dialogue sound effortless, but both actors pull it off. This a super-Sorkiny Aaron Sorkin script full of the kind of well-timed zingers and clever turns of phrase that never occur to us in real life. Rogen gets the best line of all toward the end, one he levels at Jobs in a crowded auditorium before the  iMac launch: You can be decent and gifted at the same time. Its not binary. With self-conscious beauty and piercing insight, its a notion that defines the entire film. The energy is relentless and the actors all more than meet the challenge of not only keeping up with Sorkins trademark, rat-a-tat patter but also making it sing. But because the movie takes place almost entirely within interiors, the non-stop walking-and-talking back and forth through hallways, up and down stairways and in and out of doorways almost plays like a parody of Sorkins style, the kind of thing we saw when The West Wing was at its peak. Thanks to Boyles typically kinetic direction, Steve Jobs is certainly never boring. It rarely takes a breath and is crammed with high-tech jargon, but it never feels bogged down. Corridors come to life with imagery. Moments from the past crosscut seamlessly and inform the present, often with overlapping dialogue. And the glare of the lights and thunder of the crowds can be so all encompassing, they make you feel like you were there, too: on the precipice of the future.   And thats sort of a fascinating contradiction in itself: that a movie about a guy who was obsessed with sleekness and simplicity should be bursting with verbiage and verve. Having said that, if you dont know a whole lot about Steve Jobs going into Steve Jobs, Steve Jobs isnt about to go out of its way to help you. If you dont know about the garage in Los Altos, CA where it all began, or his lengthy and tangled friendship with Wozniak, the potential for exploring the complexities of Jobs personality might be lost on you. An excellent companion piece would be  Alex Gibneys recent documentary,  Steve Jobs: The Man in the Machine, which covers much of the same ground, but more thoroughly. Youre welcome to ignore the  biopic  Jobs starring  Ashton Kutcher, if you havent already. But it is rather telling that Jobs life has inspired three separate features in just a couple of years. Sorkins script is bold in choosing these pivotal moments in Jobs career and structuring them as a three-act play. Certainly its far preferable to the standard, superficial, cradle-to-the-grave biopic that tries to encompass too much. Its easy to imagine Steve Jobs as a stage production, actually, for its theatrical talkiness and the minimalism of its set design. Its also easy to compare Sorkins portrayal of Jobs in Steve Jobs to his portrayal of Mark Zuckerberg in  The Social Network, which earned him the adapted-screenplay Oscar in . Both men are visionary geniuses who revolutionized the way people connect with each other, even though they are more than a little socially challenged when it comes to the people in their own lives. The irony may be too rich, but its delicious even though the men in question can be so vicious that their actions leave a bad taste in your mouth. The fact that he doesnt try to redeem these flawed, fascinating figures or even try to make you like them in the slightest way feels like an innovation in itself. 