With a combination of power and grace,  Julianne Moore elevates Still Alice above its made-for-cable-television trappings, and delivers one of the more memorable performances of her career. This is no small feat, given the depth and breadth of Moores filmography and her consistent ability to produce great work, from playing a porn star in  Boogie Nights to an eccentric artist in  The Big Lebowski to a frustrated housewife in Far From Heaven to her dead-on portrayal of Sarah Palin in HBOs  Game Change. Shes such a smart, clever and instinctive actress that she never hits a false note. She finds unexpected avenues into her character, a challenging role that requires her to show a mental deterioration thats both gradual and inherently internal. Thankfully, Still Alice doesnt deify the woman she plays: Dr. Alice Howland, an esteemed linguistics professor at Columbia University who finds shes suffering from early-onset Alzheimers disease. Co-directors and writers  Richard Glatzer and  Wash Westmoreland dont shy away from the steady and terrifying way the disease can take hold of a person and strip away her ability to communicate and connect with the outside world. But they also dont tell this story with much nuance or artistry in adapting  Lisa Genovas novel. This is especially true when comparing Still Alice to a couple of recent films that have tackled the same territory:  Sarah Polleys haunting Away From Her and  Michael Hanekes unflinching  Amour. The flat lighting, the frequent use of maudlin music, a heavy reliance on medium shots and some awkward cutaways for reactions all contribute to the sensation of watching a rather workmanlike production better suited to the small screen. But the films heart is in the right place, and the message matters, and it surely will resonate with the millions of people whose loved ones have suffered from this cruel disease. At the films start, though, Alice has everything. Its her thbirthday, and shes celebrating at a chic New York restaurant with her adoring family. Her husband  Alec Baldwin, whos also an academic, toasts her as the most beautiful, intelligent person hes ever known. Shes stylish, accomplished, happy and financially secure. She radiates confidence and competence at all times. But soon, wordswhich have fascinated her throughout her life and provided the basis for her careerbegin to elude her. She becomes disoriented on her daily jog around campus. She starts losing items around the house and forgetting scheduled events.   A visit to a neurologist reveals that Alice has a rare form of Alzheimers, and that its genetic. Fascinatingly, because she is such an intellectual, shes been able to play tricks on her brain and find shortcuts to mask her illness. But in no time, the bottom drops out from underneath her, and its heartbreaking to watch. Moore plays it small for the most part, conveying fear with her eyes or slight shifts in the tone of her voice, so the moments when her character understandably snaps in panic really stand out in contrast. The fact that a woman whos an expert in linguistics has trouble articulating herself may seem like an obvious device, but it also adds to the films sense of sadness and frustration, because Alice knows all too well the power of self-expression. Still Alice is about how she reacts to her own deteriorationhow she constantly reassesses it and figures out how to cope. She doesnt always do it with quiet dignity, which is refreshing' sometimes she even uses the disease to manipulate those around her or get out of a social occasion shed rather avoid. But its also about how her family reacts in unexpected ways. Her eldest daughter, Anna a stiff  Kate Bosworth, a prim and perfectly coifed lawyer who married well, doesnt handle Alices illness as well as her free-spirited youngest daughter, Lydia an excellent  Kristen Stewart, whos moved to Los Angeles with dreams of becoming an actress. The middle child, a son played by  Hunter Parrish, is also on the verge of his own impressive career as a doctor. Adding to the poignancy is the fact that Glatzer was diagnosed with ALS in  after a decade of making independent films with his partner, Westmoreland, including the  hit Quinceanera. Surely, he is all too familiar with the struggle of remaining creative and vital. The fact that this is a personal story, earnestly told and filled with hope, ultimately is what shines through with great clarity.   