At least I understood one thing: We cant turn back. We can only move forward. So observes one of the heroines of Summertime the original French title of which, La belle saison, is entirely more apt and evocative at the very end of the movie. This simple and admirable film, directed by  Catherine Corsini from a script by the director and  Laurette Polmanss, looks back at the early s in France, beginning with a scene of rural life at its most sun-dappled and sweaty. Teenage girl Delphine  Iza Higelin helps her farmer dad Jean-Henri Compre mow and bale hay. During their labors, dad speculates on Delphines personal life, to which she responds I dont want to get married. I dont want to. He asks if shes seeing any boys, she truthfully says no, and then asks what she does when she goes out for late night walks. Delphines love interest is another girl, and on a late night a little while later, that girl tells Delphine shes getting married. Soon enough, Delphine just up and moves to Paris. She takes a dingy cold-water flat, and finds herself diverted one afternoon by a group of attractive, cheeky young women who are pinching male behinds on the street. These inchoate feminists are up to more than just impromptu provocateur performance art, and Delphine, intrigued, joins up with them. And additionally she takes an interest in Carole  Ccile De France a charismatic blonde whose apartment which she shares with a bearded, politically sympathetic boyfriend is one of the groups meeting places.  One attribute that initially makes this coming-of-age story distinctive is the fact that Delphine is hardly a tentative or wishy-washy character. She knows what she wants, and in Paris, one thing she wants is Carole, and her canny but not unaggressive seduction of the woman proves spectacularly successful. The two fall almost immediately into erotic rapture, and Caroles boyfriend is obliged to put his liberation-minded politics where his mouth, or some other part of his body maybe, is. The affair is going swimmingly when Delphine is summoned home after her dad suffers a stroke.  This event, at least initially, proves a mere speed bump. Despite her desires, Delphine has a deep connection to her family and their land, and she resolves to more or less take over the farm as her dad convalesces it seems unlikely that hell actually recuperate. In short order, Carole joins her, and while Delphine advises her lover that theyre going to need to cool it somewhat, soon theyre making love outdoors and chasing the cows in the nude. Its pretty edenic for a while.  But it cant last, in part because it never does. Although suspicious locals and a tetchy wannabe boyfriend of Antoine Kvin Azas occasionally look at Delphine and Carole askance, the apple cart is not upset in any standard Hollywood way' theres no call here for didactic speeches about people loving who they want or any of that sort of thing. The movie is so relaxed in its storytelling, and so committed to a certain level of realism, that it frequently feels deliberately anti-dramatic. And its realism extends to the point in the film at which the penny drops.    The performances in the picture are all solid, but what makes Summertime really refreshing is that it doesnt treat its central romance as anything but wholly normal, despite the attitude of other characters, or indeed, the tenor of the time in which it is set. Theres a distinctive formal difference, too, in the way this films sex scenes are shot and edited and the way those of another recent French drama about a lesbian love affair, Blue Is The Warmest Color were. In Summertime, Corsini conveys an ardent eroticism without even a hint of attempted titillation. In that sense, this memory play is a kind of object lesson in moving forward.  