His purity was a very attractive quality, says an interview subject of Carl Boenish, the subject of this intermittently compelling but rather unfortunately titled documentary, directed by Marah Strauch. Boenish is okay, theres no point in being coy, the proper verb here is was a founder of BASE jumping. BASE standing for building, antenna, span, or Earth, that last meaning a cliff. I guess if you didnt capitalize it or acronymize it the term would still make sense, as youre jumping off or from something that isnt moving and hence could be considered a base. In any event, whatever youre jumping from is pretty far up, and youre using a parachute andor wearing one of those glider getups. Dont look at me, Im afraid of heights.  But Boenish sure as hell wasnt. The movie chronicles his love of skydiving from a very early age. He wasnt just in love with the fall that simulated flying, he was passionate about chronicling what one saw from starting way up and shooting straight down. Boenish was a cinematographer who worked with director  John Frankenheimer on his skydiving movie  The Gypsy Moths, on which another BASE jumping pioneer, Todd Higley, worked. Higley does not figure in this film. Some of the best stuff in the movie derives from Boenish-shot footage heights may be scary but they do tend to furnish some spectacular views.  Eventually, Boenish drifted away from Hollywood and pursued jumping full time, and with evangelical zeal. He started doing jumps off of Los Angeles skyscrapers, much to the consternation of the buildings owners. In interview footage he evinces a blithe, borderline glib disregard for rules of all sorts. Later in the film, we learn that Boenish had trouble walking fast and far because hed broken his leg in one exploit, and refused to have it set because he was a Christian Scientist. I found it curious that he had so little regard for convention in one case, and stuck to the letter of religious doctrine under circumstances that must have caused him extreme pain. The movie doesnt find this curious at all. The subject matter increasingly suggests a kind of cross between Man On Wire and  Grizzly Man, but unlike Grizzly Man director  Werner Herzog, director Strauch has little interrogative spirit. Theres no interest in exploring Boenishs contradictions.  The interviewee who notes Boenishs purity is his wife, Jean, who it seems turned out to be his greatest and most devoted disciple. The films last section focuses on a fateful  trip to Norway, where Boenish jumps from a cliff face for a Guinness World Records television special hosted by David Frost and young Kathie Lee Johnson, now Kathie Lee Gifford and a rather more seasoned and terrifying TV presence. Neither Frost, who died in , nor Gifford, who appears to be alive, was interviewed for the film. The jump recorded for the television special goes off flawlessly, while a jump Boenish does just for the heck of it does not. The editorial choices in this section go more than a little slack' we hear about Boenishs bum leg more than three times in less than ten minutes. Reflecting on the events thirty years later, Jean has no apologies: Everyone has his own real way of reacting. It will be individual. And BASE jumping encourages people to think as individuals BASE jumping is now considered a legitimate extreme sport, and Boenishs widow thinks this is all well and good' extreme experience, she says, is not unique to BASE jumping. BASE jumping is just a condensed version. By this time in the film, the dramatic reenactments of events had grown pretty thick, which tried my patience' I also have to admit I found Jean Boenishs philosophical musings less than persuasive. And I dont think my fear of heights was the reason for my bias. 