In his  essay On A Book Entitled Lolita,  Vladimir Nabokov recounts both the imaginative origins of his groundbreaking novel and the difficulty he had finding a publisher for it in the United States. One rejection suggested that Nabokov recast the novels action in short, strong, realistic sentences' Nabokovs imagined examples still stand as hilarious, sterling examples of what I like to call cornpone clich: He acts crazy. We all act crazy, I guess. I guess God acts crazy.  Funny how some writers, and some audiences, still consider this kind of mush authentic, let alone powerful. It thrives like unmowed kudzu in the dialogue of this aspiring noir written by brothers Paul and  Benjamin China and directed by  Jamie M. Dagg. Take this bit of diner conversation between Sam, a onetime rodeo champ played by  Jon Bernthal, and Elwood no really, a contract killer played by  Christopher Abbott. Take it away Elwood no really:    You got a woman?  I dont talk about it much, but I guess there is  Is she special?  She is.  Thats good. Hold on to that.  Whoa. Hold on to that and dont act too crazy. A little back-story here: at the time of this conversation, nice guy Sam doesnt yet know that Elwood no really is a contract killer. Sams special woman, Bernadette  Rosemarie DeWitt is now a widow, because Elwood no really killed her husband and two other guys in the movies opening scene. Also, Sweet Virginia is not a character in this Alaska-set movie' rather, it is the name of the motel Sam owns and runs and presumably named for sentimental reason. As for Elwood okay Ill stop, we learn early on that he was hired by another local wife, Lila, who hated her husband and wanted him dead so she could collect his money WITH WHICH, and heres the rub, she was going to pay Elwood, and then do other things. When she confronts Elwood after the killing, she tells him  You were only supposed to blow the bloody doors off, I mean, he was only supposed to kill the one guy, and he explains to her how killing three guys made total sense because it made the whole thing look so random. You gotta love these super genius hit men.  And the women who hire them. A little after that, a lawyer says to Lila, Were you aware of your husbands financial difficulties and this  wannabe Phyllis Dietrichsons eyes go all wide and she practically mouths the word Ooops.  This is one of those movies concocted by people whove seen too many movies' whose experience of violence and crime derives entirely from movies' whose main motivation is derived from some desire to emulate a mode of cool that they learned from Coen Brothers and Tarantino movies, and which they think theyve made less overtly derivative by leavening with ideas from even older movies. Its central performance, by Abbott, is a harrowing, embarrassing adventure in mannerisms. Elwoods on a short fuse, you see' he drives around town talking to himself, making profane observation about the locals' after one pay phone conversation near a convenience store, Elwood kicks the crap out of some punks who are looking at him funny' with every line reading and twitch of the shoulder you can see Abbott congratulating himself on playing a genuine PSYCHO whos also complex because of his terse one-sided phone conversations with his terminally ill mother down south of Alaska. Bernthal is somewhat more relaxed as a one-time tough guy just trying to come into his house justified, but, not to put too fine a point on it, so what.  All that said, the movie is well put together, enough so that if youre not entirely tired of its clichs, it might constitute a tolerable entertainment. Id rather watch  Double Indemnity for the th time. 