Melissa McCarthy has enough clout in this town and in this industry, following standout performances in the massive box-office hits " Bridesmaids," " The Heat" and even " Identity Thief," to make pretty much any movie she wants. Shes used it to make "Tammy," a comedy she stars in, produced and co-wrote with her husband,  Ben Falcone, whos directing his first feature. "Tammy" provides McCarthy with the opportunity to do yet another version of the persona shes honed: a brash, trash-talking woman whose seemingly over-inflated sense of self masks a vulnerability and a need for acceptance and love. That this type of character also has a subversive sense of humor keeps us on our toes and keeps the shtick somewhat fresh. McCarthy has a way with a tossed-off ad lib an aside or an observation or an insult that provides some clever surprises when you think youve got this person all figured out. I wonder what else she has in her bag of tricks, though. Shes clearly a gifted and fearless comedian, both verbally and physically. "Tammy" offers glimmers of greater dramatic depth, but while its much funnier than it looks, it also features moments of attempted poignancy that dont always feel earned. The quality of the cast which includes  Susan Sarandon,  Kathy Bates,  Allison Janney and  Mark Duplass, in a further sign of McCarthys power certainly elevates the premise, which is essentially your standard, desperate road-trip comedy.  When we first meet Tammy, she hits a deer while driving her junker car to her lousy job at a third-rate fast-food restaurant. Arriving in a more late and slovenly state than usual, she promptly clashes with her uptight assistant manager Falcone himself, whos been her frequent co-star. He fires her, which means she goes home early, which means she finds her husband  Nat Faxon having a romantic, home-cooked dinner with next-door neighbor Missi, played by a woefully underused  Toni Collette. Seriously, she gets maybe three lines. Its a massive waste of a huge talent. And so, as shes done so many times before, Tammy packs up her random belongings and her hideous wardrobe and threatens to leave her small Illinois town, a place so insular and stunting that her mother Janney and grandmother Sarandon live two doors down. This time, she makes it past the city limits, though, with the help of Grandma Pearls Cadillac, Grandma Pearls wad of , in cash and Grandma Pearl herself. Desperate for an adventure, Pearl offers to go along for the ride. Shes also a diabetic whos forgotten her meds as well as a full-blown alcoholic, which complicates matters.   If youre not distracted by the fact that Sarandon is a mere  years older than McCarthy and that her sexy, sly demeanor still shines through beneath her scruffy, silver wig, perhaps youll feel encouraged to go along for the ride, too. Thelma amp' Louise, this is not, but the two actresses do have a sparky chemistry with each other. McCarthy is aggressive and foul-mouthed while Sarandon is sensible and laid-back. And theyre clearly destined for trouble, which leads to solid if scattered laughs.  Their convoluted circumstances include the promiscuous Pearls sexual connection with a randy, older barfly  Gary Cole, while Tammy unsuccessfully flirts with his sweet, shy son Duplass. While its always a joy to see the versatile, natural Duplass, his character feels frustratingly underwritten here, rendering hollow the supposed romance that develops between him and Tammy.  A Jet-Ski accident, a fast-food restaurant robbery, some brief jail time and a lavish  July   party at the home of a wealthy lesbian a no-nonsense Bates and her partner a barely-there  Sandra Oh also await. But between these antics, Pearl and Tammy must work though decades-old resentments and failures in order to get both of their lives back on track. The attempt at achieving both zany comedy and emotional depth requires a light touch that sometimes eludes Falcone. But the intention is admirable, as is the focus on flawed female characters and the way they relate to each other.  Tammy passes the Bechdel test, for those of you keeping score at home. But while Tammy herself is a meandering mess with no real purpose in life, theres clearly a good heart beneath the disheveled exterior. At least, there are hints at it. McCarthy has made sure that her movie is kind enough to its characters to try and find that out.  