For Iranian director  Jafar Panahi, officially banned by his country from making films and traveling for at least the next decade, necessity and courage have been the mothers of his cinematic invention. Under different circumstances Panahi has forged sharp, full-hearted parables and critiques of life in his country, such as the  crime drama  Crimson Gold and the  anti-official-sexism story Offside. After his conviction on vague propaganda charges in , his access to conventional means of film production was completely cut off, so he resorted to a home video camera and an iPhone to make his  This Is Not A Film, a searing and moving self-portrait that also, in spite of or perhaps because of the constraints of its setting, also served as an unsettling portrait of his country. s  Closed Curtain, also made in secret with a very limited crew, took the directors experience of cultural and social isolation to a near-surreal extreme. Panahis latest act of defiance is entirely commendable on a number of levels, but I regret to say that from my own perspective, Taxi is the weakest of the films hes made since he was enjoined from making them.  The movies title lays out its framework. The action is confined to the interior of a taxi in Irans capital city of Tehran. The cabs equipped with a few cameras that can cover the passenger seat, back seat, drivers seat, and theres a view out the front windshield as well. And behind the wheel is  guess who? Panahi himself, and its heartening to see him here looking relatively cheerful given the depressive and near-despairing states chronicled in his two prior pictures. Right away the movie gets into the issues as it were, with one passenger loudly declaiming that hubcap thieves ought to be hanged not as a matter of consistent policy but as a deterrent, insurance that those contemplating such crimes get the message. Then this truculent fellow criticizes Panahis driving and sense of direction.  Once that fare has been dispatched, another passenger notes that the angry fellow seems to have been enacting a patch of dialogue from Panahis Crimson Gold. This brings up the question as to whether what were watching is a documentary or a series of stages scenes, something thats never really resolved. The weird intermediate state of things is perhaps meant to keep the viewer off balance, but the resultant experience is more frustrating than beguiling or provocative. The number of fares or "fares" who recognize Panahi immediately and make knowing comments about his work could be enacting a purposeful strategy of reflexivity  or the whole thing is some kind of misguided exercise in self-aggrandizement. The people of cinema can always be relied on, one fare says to Panahi warmly.  Near the end, the picture picks up some steam. After a rather reverse-cloying exchange with a niece, Panahi picks up a woman on her way to a prison visit, who delivers a bracing indictment of the countrys penal system and then comments that were her views to appear in a Panahi film, that movie would be banned on the grounds of sordid realism. That latter phrase is allowed to settle into the viewers consciousness for a little while before a title card informs the audience that the movies credits, if there are to be any, need to be approved by the Ministry of Islamic Guidance. These chilling moments underscore the unusual fact that whatever I might have gotten out of Taxi from the perspective of my own enlightenment andor enjoyment, its nevertheless a film that on a very crucial level needs to exist.   