First, the bad news. Term Life, despite what you might expect from its laughable poster and no-critics-screening VOD release, isnt fun bad. If youre looking for the next The Room, or even something akin to some of Nicolas Cages more YouTube-ready over-the-top performances, youll have to look elsewhere. No, Term Life is just a run-of-the-mill, poorly made thriller that doesnt thrill. Its a wannabe noir with no atmosphere, and a waste of a talented cast by a director who really has no idea what to do with them. Great actors wander in and out of a scene, some of them get shot, some just disappear, and the move trudges onward. At least it pauses briefly to address Vince Vaughns ridiculous haircut.  Vaughn stars as Nick Barrow, a man who literally introduces himself via narration with the line I plan heists. The narration is the only laughably fun part of the movie with insanely on-the-nose bon mots like Being interrogated by a cartel leader is not how I expected my day to start out. Nick is to illegal activity as a wedding planner is to nuptials he designs the event and then gets a cut when it succeeds. His latest plan goes awry when the perpetrators are gunned down after pulling it off. It turns out that Nicks latest customer was the son of a notorious cartel leader  Jordi Molla. If youre thinking that a movie about a drug dealer getting vengeance for his sons murder would be enough, youre ahead of Term Life. It ALSO turns out that the robbery aggravated a dirty cop named Keenan  Bill Paxton and his crew including Mike Epps and Shea Wigham are the ones who actually killed the drug lords kid to get back what he stole.  Still not enough movie for you? OK, lets graft on a father-daughter plot. When Nick realizes that a notorious criminal mastermind and a team of dirty cops are after him, he does what any estranged father would do he buys life insurance hence the films name. But, as hes told by the insurance agent a fascinatingly underused  Taraji P. Henson, who sells the policy and disappears, he has to survive three weeks for the blood work to go through, or else his daughter Cate  Hailee Steinfeld wont get anything when hes iced. So, Nick and Cate go on the run, provoking the suspicions of a small town cop played by another actor too good for the size of his role  Terrence Howard. I didnt even mention the fact that Cates mother is a recovering alcoholic. Its all so much movie and yet so little at the same time. The every-clich-and-the-kitchen-sink approach of Term Life leads to a crushingly bland affair. Its kind of like how every color blends to gray eventually. Nothing in Term Life is developed enough in its -minute run time to give it any weight. Paxtons villainous cop deserved a better movie theres a scene in the middle between him and Wigham that is a perfect example of a point where the film could have become something else but went back to the middle of the road, as does the great  Jonathan Banks buddy and even  Jon Favreaus criminal lackey. Most of all, the talented Steinfeld gives Term Life way more than the film deserves, playing the anger of a young woman ignored by her father her entire life. Sadly, Billingsley doesnt know what to do with her performance, too often pushing it back to clich. What do teen girls do? Go swimsuit shopping! For the record, this is where I would have checked out were it not my professional obligation to continue.   Ultimately, theres no sense of danger or world creation here. These people dont exist in the real world, and Billingsley has no idea how to make it feel like they do. Its one of those films that thinks casting equates to audience concern. Why do we care about what happens to Nick and Kate? Because their faces are on the poster. And it absolutely fails as an action film. Billingsley, the director of  Couples Retreat, does not have any clue what to do with stunt work or shoot-out choreography. Theres one scene in which Nick is supposed to throw a guy out a window and the stunt man basically just runs for the glass, while Vaughn pats him on the back on the way by. Its the one time I laughed. 