While"The Terminator" was a great horror film, " Terminator : Judgment Day" is a great action film. While"The Terminator" was about the horror of an unstoppable harbinger of a technologically-advanced but soul-dead present,"Terminator " is, like so many action films before it, aparadoxically violent screed against violence. The film's reactionary politics areessentiallydated, thoughthere are severalmodern fanaticswho embodytheparanoiac impulses that compel self-styled freedom fighterSarah Connor  Linda Hamilton to fight against mental institutions, the police, and common sense to stopartificially-intelligent computer systemSkynet from obliterating humanity in a nuclear war. But it's important to note thatSarah isnot the heroine of "Terminator " as she was in "The Terminator," but rather a supporting character who helps raise both estranged son John  Edward Furlong andcyborg bodyguardsurrogate dadT-  Arnold Schwarzenegger. The T- is the main character in "Terminator " since he, as he boasts, is a "learning machine," capable of progressiveadaptation. Thiswas the path to war in the era of George H.W. Bush bipartisanship: using one lethal system to combat a more threatening system. Robots don't kill people people kill people. The T-'s burgeoning ersatzhumanity makes Schwarzenegger a perfectly re-purposedtool. Director  James Cameron had to convince the Austrian Oakto turnhis humanoid baddie into a good guy, a jarringtransition that was partly difficult for Schwarzenegger to stomach due to the prior failure of" Conan the Destroyer," another sequel that was relatively lighter than its predecessor. But the T-'s role changeworks as well as it does because viewers both then and now don't necessarily expect Schwarzenegger's deadpan killing machine to be capable of serving as anybody'sJiminy Cricket-like moral compass. Still, that's exactly what the T- does when he re-unites John with Sarah, and learns from both characters first-hand the value of preserving human life. The T-'s change from a villain to a heroalsoreflects the ambivalent optimism at the heart of "Terminator ." Some cogs in the system can be retrained, but not all systems are benign. The psychiatric institution, represented by vainglorious Dr. Silberman  Earl Boen, is tellingly dismissed since it keeps singular iconoclasts like Sarah down, and convinces them that they must genuinely want tore-assimilate rather than just mimic a desire to change in "Terminator ,"bad machines are good mimics, but good people are bad mimics. The cops, represented by the confoundeddetectives who interrogate Sarah about her connection to the T- and thegas-mask-making SWAT team thattries to prevent the destruction of Skynet, are ineffectual, and hampered by a lack of emotional inspiration.   Butnuclear families, like the ones that surround well-meaningscientistMiles Dyson  Joe Morton and good-natured survivalist Enrique Salceda Castulo Guerra, are all positive since they represent abright future that must be protectedhope must be preserved and defended instead of cultivated and maintained. So it makes sense that Sarah stops beinga machine-like human, and starts acting like a human machine when she encounters Miles and Enrique, but is eithersuppressed, or threatened during her every encounter with security guards, orderlies, and cops. These central tenets of "Terminator "'sfear-mongering worldview are also present in "The Terminator," but they are perhaps more compelling in the sequel since they are a product of Cameron's singularly fanatic creativity. I imagine heidentified as the clean-burning machine, his vision hindered only byunyielding crew members, pressingbudget restrictions, and the small-mindedness of anyonewho doesn't agree that bigger is necessarily better. For proof,compare the way Cameron shoots violence in "The Terminator" with "Terminator ."There'smore gore and impact-intensive massacres in theformerfilm while the latter is characterized by the relatively sleek killing style of the T-, or even the scalpel-like precision of the T-, who self-disassembles his left fore-armin "Terminator " much faster than he gougeshis right fore-arm andhis left eyeball"The Terminator." And while therearen'tmorecollisions andcar crashesin "Terminator " than there are in "The Terminator," there are biggerexplosions. "Terminator " oozes barely-sublimated tension that hails from Cameron's highlypersonal vision, as we see duringformative car chases,pyrotechnics, and body-morphing computer effects. In fact, one majorreason to revisit the "Terminator " is that the post-converted -D makes the film's textures that much richer, especially any surface covered infire, sweat, or light. Special effects designerStan Winston'scyborg puppets and computereffects are worth the extra couple ofbucks for -D, especiallyhisbody-deforming designs for the T-, like the bifurcated "Pretzel Man," or the porous "Donut Head." Schwarzenegger and his mostly excellent cast-mates may notneed a glossy technological reboot, but it is nice to be reminded on a big screen, through engrossingclose-ups, tracking shots, andcomplex lighting set-ups, that Cameron knows how to use his human cogs to maximally service his hulking anti-authoritarian blockbuster.Hismaximalist style pays off big time, making "Terminator " that rare genreclassic that is every bit as good as its reputation. 