The central thrust of the scattered, clanging and unwieldy Terminator Genisys is that the Cloud will destroy us all. Now, they dont exactly call it the Cloud, as they do in last years  Sex Tape. But maybe that straining Cameron Diaz-Jason Segel comedy was onto something when it warned us that uploading information and then synching all our electronic devices to each other might be a dangerous thing after all. Here, this revolutionary but ethereal system is called Genisys. It goes online on a specific day in . Theres a countdown clock and everything in an effort to magnify the tension. Its even a pleasing shade of light blue. And while it promises to link your phone, tablet, laptop, etc., the convenience it offers might come at a cost. It might, you know, mean the end of the world as we know it. Were all on our devices too much, anyway  heads down, necks craned, eyes glazed, clueless to our surroundings and careless about other actual people. The corporate behemoth behind Terminator Genisys certainly would never suggest that you order your movie tickets online from your smartphone. And you probably shouldnt tweet or take an Instagram photo or post on Facebook about the movie afterward. Because thats how the machines will finally win  if they havent already.  Director  Alan Taylor offers a parable that aims to have its cake and eat it too along the lines of this summers  Jurassic World, a similarly mediocre reboot of a groundbreaking action franchise, which warned us of the dangers of corporate greed within a blockbuster crammed with product placement for Mercedes-Benz and Samsung and Beats by Dre. Great science fiction strives to illuminate our daily lives through fantastical scenarios. Terminator Genisys kinda-sorta tries to make a point about our reliance on technology while using glossy, -D imagery to milk pop-culture nostalgia: namely, the sight of  Arnold Schwarzenegger once again kicking butt and making puns in the role that made him a superstar over  years ago. Admittedly, its an amusing return at first. Ah-nuld is older now, but as his Terminator character repeatedly insists throughout film, hes not obsolete. But watching him revisit the role at this stage in his life and career  the former California governor is nearly  now  too often feels like a recycling of greatest hits. Youre sort of happy to hear these tunes, but they dont sound nearly as fresh as they once did. Taylor and his team have recreated with great care specific scenes from  James Camerons original Terminator, including the moment when Schwarzeneggers character arrives naked at Griffith Observatory and confronts a group of punks. But then, this ultimately morphs into a Terminator-on-Terminator showdown, with the younger Schwarzenegger fighting his current self across generations. Because you see, Terminator Genisys messes with the timeline  or, rather, timelines. The script from  Laeta Kalogridis and  Patrick Lussier indulges in multiple and intersecting time-travel streams with varied and complicated outcomes. It makes sense for a while if you think about it hard enough  and if precision matters to you within the internal logic of time-travels movies in general. But then a character delivers a line to his younger self in the absolute last scene that negates everything that came before it. It breaks the rules, and it feels like a cheat.   Terminator Genisys begins, though, in . Judgment Day has happened. Skynet woke up in , the machines started thinking for themselves and three billion people died in the ensuing nuclear annihilation. The leader of the surviving revolutionaries,  John Connor played this time by steely-eyed Australian actor  Jason Clarke, sends his right-hand man, Kyle Reese  Jai Courtney, back in time to protect Connors waitress mom, Sarah Connor, from the Terminator thats on a mission to kill her. The basic tenets of the mythology should be familiar to you if youve seen the previous four films in the series and if not, Kyle catches you up in a long opening voiceover. But something happens as Kyle is being zapped back to : a glitch, both inside and outside the machine, which causes a tweaked timeline upon his arrival. Sarah Game of Thrones actress  Emilia Clarke, trying mightily to summon some of  Linda Hamiltons grit knows who Kyle is and knows why hes come. Schwarzeneggers Terminator is now her friend  actually, hes a father figure, so much so that she lovingly calls him Pops. So now they all must learn to trust each other and work together to stop the apocalypse. This results in several exciting moments within its elaborate battles and chases and set pieces, as well as some genuine suspense. And the effects are consistently cool, although they arent too terribly different from the liquid metal T- effects that dazzled us in  Terminator : Judgment Day back in . This time, Korean star  Byung-hun Lee functions in the  Robert Patrick bad-cop role. The fate of a school bus dangling precariously off the side of the Golden Gate Bridge  and the people within it  might give you vertigo. And man, has San Francisco been getting hammered lately between Godzilla,  Dawn of the Planet of the Apes,  San Andreas and now this. Theres a think piece in there somewhere about Hollywood trying to exorcise the demons of instant high-tech wealth.   Clarke can be genuinely compelling and even a little enigmatic as John Connor  who, intriguingly, is depicted as far less of a Christ figure than he has been in previous installations. Courtney is blandly hunky in a rare good-guy role. And Emilia Clarke is plucky and likable in the warrior princess role of Sarah Connor, but theres a softness and a sweetness about her  a girlishness, even  which makes her feel like a Muppet Babies version of the character. But for better and for worse, this is Schwarzeneggers show. His performance, and his characters evolution, are the reasons Terminator Genisys turns unfortunately jokey and self-referential, to the point that it borders on parody. Schwarzeneggers one-liners helped define the franchise in its early years. They were a reflection of this flesh-covered machines awkward, heavily accented attempts at assimilating with humans, and they provided much-needed comic relief. Here, when he says Ill be back, its more likely to produce groans than grins. Schwarzenegger has turned into your elderly uncle, dancing like a goofball at your wedding after a couple glasses of champagne. He knows hes being silly, and he knows that you know, and that alone is supposed to be good for a laugh. But its not. Its just sad. He has essentially become McBain. Clearly, its time to say Hasta la vista, baby, once and for all. 