The cheese is thick and it smothers everything in The Boy Next Door, but its never quite gooey or spicy enough. You want an erotic thriller in which a hunky -year-old seduces a mom twice his age  and then obsessively stalks and threatens her  to be as over-the-top as possible. If youre going to make an R-rated version of what is essentially Lifetime movie material, as director  Rob Cohen has done here, you dont want anything resembling restraint. The Boy Next Door has its share of so-bad-theyre-good moments  and details, and chunks of dialogue  but not nearly enough. Mostly, theyre just bad. And it had such potential too, starting with the casting. Jennifer Lopez stars as the WASPily named Claire Peterson, the hottest high school English teacher in the San Fernando Valley. How she finds time to blow out her hair and apply full makeup every morning  complete with smoky eyes and glossy lips  while also serving as a single parent to her teenage son, Kevin  Ian Nelson, is the films real mystery. At night, she lounges around in flimsy tank tops and teddies that cling to the actress world-famous posterior. Buffed and polished to a high sheen, J-Lo is  and has never looked better  and thats actually part of the problem. A woman whos a little more vulnerable, and a little less of a force of nature, might have been a more believable mark. Claire has been lonely lately since separating from her philandering husband, Garrett  John Corbett. And the sweet but slightly nerdy Kevin could use a strong male figure around, too. So its perfect timing when the handsome and muscular Noah  Ryan Guzman moves into the house next door to help his ailing uncle who distractingly resembles  Johnny Knoxville in his Bad Grandpa makeup. We actually see his biceps before we see his face. But theres so much more to him than just his looks' in the screenplay from first-timer  Barbara Curry, hes hilariously too good to be true. Noah fixes cars and cleans out storm drains. The first thing he repairs is Claires broken garage door. Hows that for a sexual metaphor? He can beat up the bullies who antagonize Kevin and give the kid enough confidence to ask out the prettiest girl in school. But hes also a scholar, and can quote extensively from The Iliad. The way this classic piece of literature is used throughout the film inspired unintentional laughter during the screening I attended. And so, at age , he finagles his way into Claires English class, having never graduated from high school because of his troubled, orphaned past.   On the one night a year that it rains in Los Angeles, after a couple glasses of wine, Claire gives in to Noahs flirtations and sleeps with him in a scene thats admittedly quite steamy, despite Lopezs no-nudity clause. The next morning, though, as shes gathering her things and preparing to do the quick walk of shame, Noahs clingy, intense freak-out should be her first clue that something is a little off with this guy. Guzman, a veteran of the Step Up franchise, may know the moves here, too, but never sells them convincingly. Theres something too boyish about his looks and underdeveloped about his craft. Hes never truly menacing, which depletes this erotic thriller of much of its thrills, and he ends up being thoroughly outmatched by the charismatic Lopez at every turn. From here, there are multiple instances of elaborately threatening behavior which should be enough cause for Claire to go to the police, but then we would have no movie. Instead, we watch as she scrambles and fumbles in hopes of appeasing this psycho  and inadvertently places herself and her family in further danger. Cohen directed the first Fast and Furious movie from , and he gets the chance to insert one decent car chase as a reminder of what hes capable of doing with more lively material. Only the insane and insanely violent climactic showdown, in a burning barn, of all places, finally gives the people what they want. Youll howl, youll squirm, youll applaud with disgusted glee  and youll wish that the rest of the film were that much fun. 