I really miss  Bertrand Blier sometimes. Who? you might ask. French writerdirector Bliers movies arent much in fashion nowadays, but back in the s and s he was quite the American art house scandal. His movies, including  Going Places, Get Out Your Handkerchiefs, and Too Beautiful For You, were no-holds-barred sex comedies exposing both male brutality and male insecurity, which of course often go hand in hand. And they werent afraid of exploring the extreme and secretive edges of male sexuality. Take, for instance, s Going Places, in which  Gerard Depardieu whose movies with Blier helped make him a star and  Patrick Dewaere play a couple of dirtbags roaming the French countryside trying to get into the pants of pretty much every woman they encounter including a nun. Theres a scene in the movie in which the pair find themselves bereft of the company of women, and Depardieus character just rapes Dewaeres. Aiiieee, right? Only in Bliers hands, the whole thing is kind of revelatory.  I thought of Blier while watching The D Train, in which male sexuality, brutality, and insecurity are all subjected to scrutiny. Not with dry humor and merciless precision but the worst indie-film conventions concerning nerdiness, and butter tubs of sentimentality. The movie goes for grin-and-cringe-inducing, and instead achieves excruciating.  Jack Black plays Dan Landsman the title, incidentally, alludes to the characters compulsive, annoying attempts at assigning himself an appropriately bro-ish nickname a suburbanite whos such an annoying and tetchy component of his high schools reunion committee that one understands when his fellow sad-sacks neglect to invite him out for beers after a typically dispiriting session of trying to drum up alumni enthusiasm. So its a little surprising, really, when after these rejections he returns home to his attractive, attentive wife and two kids, one an infant, the other a slightly withdrawn teen boy. Already the character components are failing to line up convincingly, which always suggests a new agenda is brewing.  This comes up when Dan sees a former classmate, Oliver Lawless, in a cheesy sunscreen commercial on TV. Dan is immediately obsessed someone of his high school tribe has made it and concocts a very hare-brained scheme to attract the gone-Hollywood Lawless to the reunion. Said scheme involves concocting a fraudulent business deal in L.A., and the plot thickens when Dans genial but clueless boss  Jeffrey Tambor insists on going on the trip.  In L.A., the meetup with Oliver goes FAR better than expected. Dan and the indolent, unshaven hunk, played by  James Marsden, catch up over not just drinks but cocaine and muscle relaxants. Youre gay? Dan asks, after experiencing some conversational confusion over Olivers preferences. Im not into labels, Oliver drawls. Hollywood, man. Right?  And then, one of their debauches ends with the two having sex, which Oliver, the morning after, takes in not-into-labels stride, while Dan kind of freaks out. Media outlets are referring to the not-particularly explicit seduction as THAT Jack Black, James Marsden scene, ooh la la. At first he freaks out in that conventionally, clichd good way that weve been seeing since  Fried Green Tomatoes and probably before: hes a new man, bold with his fellows and a tornado in the bedroom. But his cockiness is soon subsumed' after  Lawless shows up in town to attend the reunion that Dans sold him on AND to crash at Dans house, AND to offer Dans awkward teenage son crassly comic sex advice, bet you didnt see THAT coming Dans feelings become sneakier, and he starts acting like a spurned lover, which tends to confuse many around him. And of course it all comes to a head at the aforementioned reunion.    That climax then leads to a summation of Lessons Learned, which are the usual dont be afraid to be yourself even if youre not sure who that self is bromides, and also some stuff about how getting on a TV commercial isnt all its cracked up to be. The lead actors all do work that critics like to call game, but they dont generate anything: not empathy, not sympathy, not a chuckle. Its clear that writer-directors  Jarrad Paul and Andrew Mogel are out to create a comic parable of acceptance and stuff, and the near-ossified sub-genre or category referred to as indie allows them the latitude to go places that a big Hollywood production might not allow. Trouble is, they dont go to those places credibly. At all. Mogel and Paul are the writers of record for the middling  Jim Carrey comedy  Yes Man and frankly Id say they met their water level there. As for Bertrand Blier, Im told his comedies grew sourer and more intolerant over the years, but its hard for me to say, as none of them have gotten a U.S. release in this century. 