A  ruggedly hunky guy toiling on a Louisiana oil rig decides to cuddle up  with a thick  Stephen Hawking book on his lunch break. We will soon hear  him in a voiceover pondering his destined path in life while the  stars sparkle in the sky as if a Swavorski crystal display exploded at  the mall. Yeah,  right, I found myself saying out loud. Little did I know that I  should have saved that remark for the truly ridiculous situations that  were lying in wait during the rest of The Best of Me. Besides,  at this point, there is little use going against the tide of tears wept  in the name of the shamelessly swoony sob-a-paloozas based on the  best-selling romantic novels of the wealthier-than-thou  Nicholas Sparks.   As a moviegoer, however, you do have a choice. Either weep with themor laugh at them. Or stay far, far away. The  Best of Me, the ninth Sparks-based film, falls squarely in the  mediocre category and makes s The Notebook seem like   Casablanca. It revolves around a second chance at true love as  high-school sweethearts are reunited after  years following the death  of a mutual friend. The aforementioned hunk is Dawson  James Marsden, a  loner of few words who scored  on his SATs yet settled into a  blue-collar job. At least it is an excuse to see what Marsden would look  like as the construction worker in the Village People.  Amanda  Michelle Monaghan is an upper-class housewife who dotes on  her teen son and bitterly weeps over her crumbling marriage to a  self-involved twerp who is an alcoholic, workaholic and all-around  jerkaholic. She and Dawson both return to their hometown for the reading  of a will of a man named Tuck. Soon they are riffling through the  goodies of a fairy-tale cottage they have jointly inherited that is  straight out of a Thomas Kincade painting, complete with oaks draped in  Spanish moss, fields of rosy posies ripe for the picking and an  old-fashioned swimming hole. Cue  the flashback to , even though it seems more like an Ozzie and  Harriet episode, with its soda shop named Squeals, than the year when  Nirvanas Nevermind topped the album charts and  Reservoir Dogs was  released. The teen Amanda played by  Liana Liberato is an outspoken  lawyer-wannabe rich girl with a very strange penchant for backless  attire who pursues the withdrawn Dawson  Luke Bracey in the most  wholesome way possible. Sparks sparks eventually fly, including a  requisite smooch in the rain, despite their desperate backgrounds and  personalities.   Time  for another Yeah, right! Complicating matters is that Dawson is a  member of a notorious Cole clan of white-trash swamp-rat outlaws. They,  too, appear to be from discordant time periods. Dawsons nasty redneck  daddy, who cant keep his fists to himself, could be trying out as a  member of the Barrow gang in Bonnie and Clyde. Meanwhile, his  gap-toothed, mullet-headed hench brothers might be related to the  meth-lab backwoods lowlifes in "Winters Bone" by way of " Deliverance."  Basically, these portions feel like an old SCTV skit that never made it  on air. However,  the most distracting and near-fatal incongruity is the choice of Bracey  as the younger Dawson. There is no way and no how that this actor would  ever grow up to be Marsden. For one thing, he actually looks older. Not  only that, he doesnt look, act or sound like him. What is even sillier  is when Monaghans Amanda makes the observation to Marsdens Dawson, as  they find themselves falling for each other again, that somehow youve  gotten better looking. And she is, of course, right. The  one pleasant respite is whenever  Gerald McRaney shows up in the  flashbacks as Tuck, a gruff yet caring former military man and widower  who becomes a second father to Dawson after he runs away from home. And  pros that they are, Marsden and Monaghan make for a very pretty couple  as they manage to stay committed to their characters, no matter what  trite nonsense trickles out of their mouths. At  a certain point, though, the coincidences and tragic incidents start to  pile up at a startling rate and nothing can be taken seriously. Not  that you dont see these developments coming from miles away.    If a pediatric cancer charity is mentioned, a kid will end up having cancer.  If  a parent hosting a fancy party asks his daughters dirt-poor suitor to  check out his collection of vintage cars, the door will soon be shown. If someone is told to be careful behind the wheel, a car crash is not far behind If a vehicle waits as the lights start to flash at a train crossing, something bad is about to occur.  And  if a character reveals that they once had a drinking problem that is  now under control, they will be shown popping a cork on a wine bottle for a cozy dinner for two in the very next scene and downing Budweisers the official beer of rekindled affairs, apparently while on a picnic. No, that last bit doesnt make sense. But little of The Best of Me does. 