After the success of films like  The Firm and A Time to Kill in the mid-s, filmgoers were treated to dozens of Grisham wannabes, films that mimicked the hit authors legal prose, typically with a twist or two in the final act.  Courtney Hunts sterile and flat The Whole Truth would have fit perfectly in this lackluster subgenre. Starring  Keanu Reeves,  Renee Zellweger,  Gugu Mbatha-Raw and  Jim Belushi, almost the entirety of this courtroom drama takes place literally in a courtroom, and the whole thing has the energy of a basic cable TV show. Actually, thats not fair most of those have more to say and more of a visual language. Ultimately, theres nothing offensively bad here other than a waste of talent who should be doing better work but its so forgettable that youll have trouble remembering if you saw it or not when you scroll past it on cable in a few months. The Whole Truth opens in the courtroom in which most of the film will take place. We meet an attorney named Ramsey Reeves, defending an old family friend named Mike  Gabriel Basso, who has been accused of murdering his father Boone Belushi. When the police arrived on the scene, Mike was crouching over his fathers body, theres a palm print on the knife that looks like his, and he arguably made a confession. Hes been silent ever since. Zellweger plays Mikes mother' Mbatha-Raw gets a totally thankless role as Ramseys co-counsel.   Over the course of the trial, we learn about the dark side of Boone, a man who could be abusive with both his wife and son. Did Mike finally have enough of his abuse? Did he kill his father to protect his mother? Ramsey has no idea because Mike hasnt said a word about what happened that day. Its hinted at early on that Mike had an obsession with crime-solving, planting the seed that perhaps theres more going on than we may expect. And then the film employs a flashback structure that kind of becomes its trick. Ramsey tells us in overwritten narration and to his co-counsel that every witness lies. So we see witness testimony that either omits something or flat-out lies, and then we see the truth through flashback. Of course, it all culminates in several final act twists, the last of which makes almost no sense at all.   The Whole Truth is filled with lines out of the Grisham playbook like They dont teach this in law school and your enjoyment may come down to how much youre willing to forgive for the sake of a legal mystery. Theres a whole genre of mass-market paperbacks I used to call them airport books that work perfectly on a beach or a long flight, when ones bullshit detector somehow becomes dulled. The script for The Whole Truth is an airport book, although it contains even less sizzle and grit than most of those. It's by-the-numbers.   Whats most surprising about The Whole Truth is that it was helmed by Courtney Hunt, who directed  Melissa Leo to an Oscar nomination for  Frozen River in her debut. Since then, shes been working in television, including HBOs In Treatment and, perhaps noteworthy here, NBCs Law amp' Order: SVU. If you put Frozen River, with its deep character work and excellent use of setting, next to The Whole Truth, I dont think many people would think they were directed by the same filmmaker. One can only assume that this was a for-hire gig. Maybe it was part of her SVU contractual obligation. How she got involved in such a lackluster production is what I'd really like to know the truth behind.   