Norwegian hit The Wave strikes all the expected beats of an American blockbuster disaster movie like  The Day After Tomorrow or  San Andreas. Theres the long set-up in which only one man knows the truth about the impending destruction. Theres the event itself, designed to amaze audiences with its could that really happen intensity. And theres the recovery final act, in which the world has changed for the characters and they have to struggle to get back together. Its a structure that can be underappreciated in that if any of these three acts are too long or poorly done, the suspension of disbelief is punctured and a disaster movie becomes, well, a disaster itself. Whats interesting about The Wave is stepping back and considering just how well-constructed the whole thing is. The slow-burn build-up is just long enough, the disaster itself is just harrowing enough and the final act is just intense enough to keep us engaged. Its what one would call a sturdy genre pic it doesnt break any ground pun kinda intended, but it gets the job done. Geiranger is one of the most coveted tourist spots in all of Norway. Its easy to see why. The gorgeous views of the mountains and its crystal clear lakes bring new travelers every year. Of course, as the opening news footage warns us, any village at the base of a mountain, especially one as big as kerneset, is a ticking time bomb. Over ominous footage of landslides hurtling towards small towns, we hear Its only a matter of time before the next big disaster. If weve learned anything from cinema, its that Mother Nature hates you and is going to kill you. Its a wonder we dont all live in shelters. The canary in this coalmine is Kristian  Kristoffer Joner, the most vigilant employee at a Geiranger warning center. Whats a warning center, you ask? Well, the likelihood of a rockslide, and the accompanying wave that would come careening through the valley should enough water be displaced, demands a staff of people who monitor the land and water. Kristian is leaving his post, moving to the city with his wife and kids. Of course, he leaves a day too late. First, there are just some odd readings about groundwater on the mountain disappearing. Then theres Kristians realization that the substratum are shifting so drastically that an avalanche is inevitable. Of course, the rest of his staff just think hes crying wolf. There isnt a movie if theyre not apprehensive, when, in reality, theyd probably be dying to push the big red button that launches the siren that warns Geiranger that they have ten minutes before theyre underwater. The Wave hits all of the right beats for its genre. Theres the foreboding score as the camera slowly zooms in on Kristians face behind the wheel, stopped in traffic and just realizing what the latest readings meant. There are shots of birds flying in the other direction of the mountain. Theres even a great scene in which one of the analysts is watching a slasher movie on his laptop as lights start to blink red behind him. The Jason Voorhees of The Wave is Mother Nature. If there's a criticism of the structure here, it's that the build-up act of The Wave is a little too long. After Kristian knows something is afoot, and we clearly know that hes right, theres a bit too much wheel-spinning before we get to the titular event. However, said event does not disappoint. Kristian and his daughter are headed for higher ground while his wife and son are at the hotel at which she works, trying to get residents to safety before getting trapped in an underground bunker. When the wave hits, it does so with biblical force, and director  Roar Uthaug does an excellent job of keeping the danger tactile. Water rushing into a room or smashing into a car doesnt feel like typical Hollywood CGI, which allows the stakes to resonate. Hes been tapped to reboot Tomb Raider, and I hope he brings the same energy to that franchise that he did here. Lara Croft ain't got nothing on Mother Nature. 