John Butlers "The Bachelor Weekend" is a genial comedy with likable enough characters to get one through its modest running time and meager intentions but it succumbs to a few too many clichs and paper-thin characterizations to fulfill its potential. Worst of all, it allows one larger-than-life character to steal too much focus and drag the narrative into a predictable arc we've seen so many times before: the boorish lout who breaks the more docile types out of their shells. There are emotional moments that are surprisingly effective mostly thanks to the talents "Sherlock" star  Andrew Scott, a few good laughs, and hints at the film that could have been with just a few rewrites. Its not quite a "lost" weekend, merely misplaced. More accurately known as "The Stag" overseas, "The Bachelor Weekend" stars Hugh OConor as Fionnan, the kind of sensitive groom-to-be who makes dioramas of his reception and serves as the main contact for the events florist. Even the wedding planner calls him metrosexual. His fiance Ruth  Amy Huberman asks Best Man Davin Andrew Scott, Moriarty from "Sherlock" to organize a "stag." Fionnan, Davin, and their best friends will hike the great outdoors, getting in touch with nature and themselves. Travelers include Fionnans brother "Little Kevin"  Michael Legge, Kevins partner "Big Kevin"  Andrew Bennett, and friend Simon  Brian Gleeson. Of course, they all have a bit of drama to explore on their journey. Kevins father refuses to attend Fionnan's wedding if his sons partner is there. And Simon is undergoing serious financial difficulties that have plunged him into depression. While you might think theres enough movie there, Butler throws a powder keg into the campfire by introducing "The Machine"  Peter McDonald, Ruths obnoxious, loud, possibly crazy brother. The Machine forces his way on the stag, despite having nothing in common with Fionnan and his mates. He threatens to destroy the whole adventure and, for a time, the whole movie. Of course, anyone whos ever seen a film can tell you that theres more to The Machine than he lets on and that hell help pull these gentlemen out of their shells whether they want to step out or not. There are times when Butlers sweet, character-driven comedy works, such as an argument about U in which The Machine literally cant believe that theres an Irishman who didnt cry at their concert, a very funny bit about how Davin feels that Fionnan only likes things after he does so first, and a musical interlude around the bonfire. "The Bachelor Weekend" is a screenwriting tug-of-war. Every moment that feels character-driven is off-set by one that feels forced. If McDonald isnt pushing the overbearing Machine routine which, to be fair, isnt the actors fault but Butlers script, the characters are going through too many predictable revelatory moments, especially in the last half-hour the treacly piano keys kick in at almost exactly the hour mark. "The Bachelor Weekend" is at its best not in its scenes of men acting like children or the beats that feel more written than organic but in its most believable scenes of joyful, male friendship in between the broad humor and melodrama. I just wish there were more of them. 