"The Mermaid" will make you laugh.  It doesn't matter if you don't like subtitles. It doesn't matter if you've never heard of the director. It doesn't matter if you've never seen a Chinese  movie in your life.  It will make you laugh. Guaranteed. "The Mermaid" is a romantic-comedyfantasy from actor-director-producer  Stephen Chow " Kung Fu Hustle," " Shaolin Soccer" about a billionaire who falls in love with a mermaid. Paul Reubens' description of Pee-Wee  Herman as "a simple thing to hang a bunch of stuff on" could  apply to this movie. It's a gag machine with gears that never stop turning.  Chow's broad, at times bawdy sense of humor, is tempered by a  keen eye for composition, and his comic timing makes eventhe goofiest, broadest jokes work. In fact nearly all of the jokes of every kind work. If you'd told me this in advance of my first viewing of the film, on opening night in a Manhattan theater, I wouldn't have believed it, but the sound of a sold-out audience laughing from start to finish is the surest metric of whether a comedy works. This movie works.  The plot: Jerkish tycoon Liu Xuan  Deng Chao has made a ton of money off ofsonar technology that incidentallymurdersallnearby  sea-life. This includes an understandably pissed-off community of  mer-people, led by spiteful Octopus  Show Luo and naivemermaid  Shan Lin Yun. Since Liu Xuan has a weakness for the ladies, Shan is  tasked with avenging her fellow cryptids byseducing and killing him.  But there's a problem: Shan and Liu Xuan like each other. "The Mermaid" has many hallmarks of Chow's working-class-egotist-makes-good  style of comedy. Chow may not be playing the apparently  not-so- exaggeratedversion of his petulant public person here, as he  often does. But Liu Xuan can easily be read as Chow's stand-in:  he's rich, but "low-class," in the words of Shan's spiteful, mega-rich  rival Ruolan Zhang Yuqi. Flashy clothes and "Cribs"-style parties,  complete with poolside babes and decades-old wine, are the hallmarks of  Liu Xuan's nouveau richelifestyle. So when  Shan shows up, wearing smeared make-up and uglyrubber weights to  disguise her fins, everybody knows that Liu Xuan will stillchase after  her. He's a phony, as is made apparent by his paste-on pencil mustache.  Tony Stark he ain't.But  that's part of his character's wisp-thin appeal: he's instantly recognizable as a fake who neverthelesswants to make good. Still, whileChao's appropriately  exaggeratedperformance makes Liu Xuan a likable antihero, Lin's turn as  Shan is the film's secret weapon. A skilled supporting cast  ofcomedians, including Shan's fellow sea-people, allearn laughs, but Lin has theunenviabletask of making  you believe that Shan is as awkward as she seems. You have to buy the  notionthat Shan's sincere whenshe flashesXiu Luan and he  insists that he get a better look at her  wild charms.  Lin's apparentsincerity works wonders sinceChow's sense  of humor always tends to be more extreme than you expect. I've seen a  fair number of Chow films, but his sexual or violent humor always takes  me by surprise, as in a police-sketch  routine involving a merman penis and a routine about roast  chickens andcunnilingus. Lin thankfully makes you believe thatsucha  naive woman could stumble into a romance with a man she wants to  assassinate. Lin's not a victim of Chow's dirty mind:  she's an essentialcollaborator. You may be wondering, If this movie is so bizarre, so wonderful, so funny, why haven't I heard of it? The answer to that question is infuriating. Chow's "Shaolin Soccer" and "Kung Fu Hustle" were international hits, and he's a mega-star  inhis nativeHong Kong. Last weekend, "The Mermaid"  shattered domestic box office records in China and became the  movie in the world, after " Deadpool." Its American release is an afterthought for one reason: mismanagement by its American distributor,  Sony Corporation of America. In theory the film is distributed by Asia Releasing, a subsidiary that handles the release of Asian films in the US and Canada, but the print I saw had a plain old Sony logo in front of it. Sony  ought to be ashamed forkeeping such a good filmfrom American viewers  who aren't alreadypart of the Chinese diasporic  community. Three of the four Sony representatives I spoke with didn't  even know that the company was releasing "The Mermaid." The fourth  rep told me that his company hadn't thought to set up advanced  screenings for US press, or even send out an email alerting them to the film's impending release. I was told that the film  had alreadygottenpositive reviews all pegged to its release in  Asia and that Sony didn't expect it to interest many people, outside of Chinese or Chinese-American film fans.  This is the sad reality of foreign films in  America today: the domestic marketplace is so hopelessly biased in favor of English-language films, most of them produced in the United States, that the second most popular movie in the world is treated as if it doesn't even exist. Prove Sony's ignorant assumptions wrong. Go see this movie.  To find out if it's playing near you, click here.  