Part of what makes this Brazilian coming-of-age drama so winning is the way it declines to make a big deal out of what is arguably a big deal. The Way He Looks its Portuguese title is Hoje Eu Quero Voltar Sozinho which translates to roughly to Today I Want To Go Back By Myself, which makes total sense when you see the movie is a teen coming of age story, not unusualits a gay teen coming of age story, a little more unusual but not entirely unexpectedits a gay teen coming of age story in which the teen is blind OK, that is unusual and kind of a big deal.  Only not. From its languid opening scene, in which teens Leo  Ghilherme Lobo and Giovana  Tess Amorim talk about how the summers about to end, and tentatively tease each other about experiencing their first kiss, the first feature written and directed by  Daniel Ribeiro establishes a tone that tells the viewer this movie isnt going to be about big things that happen in a kids life, but that its just going to be a movie about a kids life. We dont even glom on to the fact that Leo is blind until the end of the scene, and Ribeiros sense of guileless not-quite-misdirection refuses to create the impression that a romance between Giovana and Leo would be a given under different circumstances.  The way circumstances become different is that Leo is teamed up on a class project with Gabriel, a handsome sighted peer whos got a near-unquenchable curiosity about how Leo lives, to the extent that he becomes eager to learn Braille, and then quickly frustrated by its perceived complexity. Rather than frame the narrative as one of painful andor liberating epiphanies, Ribeiro structures the movie as a relaxed line of grace notes, many of them charming Gabriel teaching Leo dance steps to the songs of Belle and Sebastian, Leo asking his game, kindly father for tips in improving his face-shaving and some painful Leos emerging new self creates not entirely unpredictable troubles for him among bigoted classmates.  The Way He Looks is a modest and good-hearted film that leaves a clean impression: youre glad to have spent time with the people in it, for sure. But if youre someone whose own specific circumstances are substantively different from those of the characters, the sense of a pleasant visit is pretty much it. I cant complain about that too much, and surely its a sign of social progress that a film has been made thats both so kindly and so matter-of-fact, so unashamedly in tune to where its characters begin and where theyre likely to be going.  