Stop me if you think youve heard this one before: In a rigidly structured dystopian future, one plucky teenager dares to think for himself, shake up the status quo and start a revolutionor, at least the beginning of a trilogy. Such is the stuff of The Maze Runner, which hews pretty closely to the YA-novel formula thats reliably produced so many hugely successful film adaptations in recent years. And, indeed, director  Wes Balls film is based on the best seller by  James Dashner. It features a similar structure, hits some recognizable beats and includes some character types that will seem pretty familiar to anyone whos seen the Hunger Games films, or Divergent, or The Giver.  But its roots stretch back further to classic, allegorical literature about frightening utopias, especially Lord of the Flies. While theres no Piggy and no conch, the teenage boys who populate this eerily idyllic society have formed their own leadership and their own rules, and they think theyve achieved a peaceful sense of order. That is, until Thomas shows up. Actually, he doesnt even know his name is Thomas at first. Dylan OBrien MTVs Teen Wolf, who resembles a young  Rob Lowe, plays the confused young man. At the films start, he finds himself rising quickly in a big, rickety freight elevator thats also loaded with supplies. The films sound design is quite startling and effective' it puts you on edge from the earliest moments. When he arrives at the top, he steps out into a sprawling, grassy square known as the Glade, which is surrounded on all sides by imposing and impossibly high concrete walls. Dozens of handsome, young men of various ethnicities wearing various shades of the same long-sleeved shirt work together cooperatively in the sunshinebuilding huts, gardening, cooking, etc. Its like the worlds hottest, grungiest Benetton ad. Like the others before him, Thomas has no memory of who he is and no idea how he got there. But as the newest arrival to the Glade, he is dubbed a greenie and duly hazed until he can prove his worth to the key figures he meets. The charismatic Alby  Aml Ameen, who was the first to arrive, is the de facto leader. Newt Thomas Brodie-Sangster is his impish right-hand man. Gally  Will Poulter is the muscular bully. Chuck Blake Cooper is the wisecracking chubby kid. And Minho  Ki Hong Lee is the head of the runners: fleet-footed boys who dare to enter an opening in the giant walls and explore the maze that lies behind them. Its vast and treacherous but at least navigable in the daytime' at night, it closes up, changes paths and devours anyone foolish enough to remain trapped. No one has survived it overnight and no one has exited the other side. Naturally, Thomas is intrigued. And whats intriguing about The Maze Runnerfor a long time, at leastis the way it tells us a story we think weve heard countless times before but with a refreshingly different tone and degree of detail. Ball, whose background is in visual effects, doesnt overload his feature debut with a lot of glossy, high-tech imagery. Not for a while, anyway. Much of the films charm comes from its rough-hewn aesthetica tactile nature thats both industrial and organicand the way it takes its time vividly establishing an environment.   When Thomas eventually does enter the mazeno spoiler there, folks, its in the titleit produces some moments that are truly harrowing and filled with non-stop, near-death peril. This is a super-violent PG-, but then again, the young readers who are the target for these books know whats in store for them. The beasts who dwell there are incessant, ravenous and very, very fast. I wont divulge what they are, but Ill only say that theyre extremely cool looking and scary as hell. All of which brings us to the ending. Man, that ending. What a misstep. Its so incredibly frustrating, because everything was going so well until then. The third act brings some mystery with the arrival of the first girl ever sent up in the elevator: a strong-willed brunette named Teresa Kaya Scodelario, who seems to know Thomas already.  But The Big Reveal of what happened to these kids, who trapped them in this place and what their purpose is ends up being pretty over-the-top even for sci-fi. A lot happens in the films final minutes to the extent that it makes The Maze Runner feel like it has several conclusions. Some of them feature some unintentional hilarity when shock and fear probably were in the game plan. And they squander the formidable and versatile  Patricia Clarkson in only a few moments as the chilly, nefarious mastermind of the maze. Presumably, shell figure more prominently in the sequel. Because, oh yes, its coming. You will not have to wander around looking for it for long. 