For better or worse, at the end credits of  The th Hour, the viewer will, I can confidentially predict, have a Well, THAT was something feeling. Whether the something part is considered good or bad I wont hazard, but there you have it. The latest movie from Danish-born writerdirector Anders Morgenthaler stars  Kim Basinger, as youve never seen her before, as they used to say in the days of more overtly cheesy movie-marketing campaigns than we enjoy today.  Shes not the first person we see in the movie: the opening credits take place in, well, an amniotic sac or rather the simulation of same in which a fetus is growing into recognizable human shape. When I look at you and I feel you in me, its so far beyond love, Basinger is soon heard saying. Is her character, Maria, addressing her husband, Peter Sebastian Shipper or the aforementioned little one? Well, Maria soon wakes up to horribly bloodied sheets and is rushed to a hospital. Turns out she just suffered the last, and worst, in a series of miscarriages, and is told by a doctor in no uncertain terms that shes got to stop trying to conceive. Peter follows suit, insisting the couple come to terms with the fact that its going to be childless. For the aging Maria, though, theres a problem: a small wisp of a child, looking rather like a genuine fairy-tale variant of the Lady In The Radiator from Lynchs Eraserhead, is constantly visiting Maria, telling the mother that she needs to find her. I am here, the vision insists. Uh-oh.  Maria is a top executive at a European shipping company Morgenthaler initially handles the specific details of Marias life with a deftness that often escapes filmmakers preoccupied with weighty themes such as squelched motherhood, and when shes conferring with a human rights group thats concerned about child prostitution on one of the companys most-traveled routes, shes visited by a near-lunatic idea. Learning that many of the child prostitutes actually sell their babies, Maria immediately convinces herself that the child who speaks to her is out there on that route. Armed with her fancy car and a lot of cash at her disposal, she takes off to Germany and its borders. She soon enlists little person Christian  Jordan Prentice of In Bruges in her quest. Christian, whom she first sees in a panda suit, getting into a vicious street fight, is not quite a paradigm of reliability. I dont get a fix, I cant help you, he says early on, and the characters junkiedom naturally determines a lot of his subsequent actions, including his decision to tag along with Maria despite his initial revulsion at the notion of purchasing a child prostitutes possibly unwanted baby. As you might expect, things do not go swimmingly, even after well, more like particularly after a baby is located, absconded with, and reclaimed by a very tough and violent character played by Peter Stormare.  The stalwart Stormare, who we all loved in  Fargo, has turned into a rather predictable actor in recent years, and despite its forefront quality, the rage he projects as a character who of course wants-back-what-was-taken-from-him seems almost phoned in. Theres also a pretty affected quality to Morgenthalers admittedly accomplished image-crafting, as in for instance a shot in which the very game Basingers face is obliterated within a mirror get it? And as a writer of English-language dialogue hes not ideal, being of the belief that variants of fk are extremely common modifiers of practically every sentence you can concoct in the language, as in for instance Youre just some rich woman who cant fkin have kids. For all that, and more, I found this a less-than-fulfilling cinematic experience. But I have to give Morgenthaler credit for what we used to call moxie whatever the hell hes doing, or thinks hes doing, hes fully committed to it, and while he doesnt really pull off the unhinged apocalyptic fireworks hes reaching for at the end and I dont think any director save Andrzej Zulawski, whos clearly an influence, could pull them off, I give him credit for trying. 