Heres a movie that would benefit from being broken up by late-night television commercials.  The Squeeze plays like something youd stumble across on USA Network back in the days ofUp All Night. All thats missing is TV host Rhonda Shear and an ad for that spray paint-based fake hair in a can. The Squeeze even has the courtesy to end with The Proclaimers Im Gonna Be  Miles, a -year old song that will never shake its association with the dismal  Johnny Depp movie  Benny and Joon. Were I not  pounds heavier and decades more wrinkled, Id have sworn I was watching this in . The only way you might glean a favorable reviews worth of enjoyment from The Squeeze is if you like being sucked into 's-era basic cable black holes. There is little else worth mentioning about this derivative, clunky, haphazardly written and visually dull sports movie except the performances by  Christopher McDonald and  Michael Nouri. My entire star rating goes to their antagonistic gambler characters. They say a movie is only as good as its villains. These villains are too good for The Squeeze. The film opens with a flash-forward of our golfer hero Augustus Maximus Baccus  Jeremy Sumpter being threatened by Nouris character, Jimmy Diamonds. Diamonds demands that Augie throw tomorrows golf game or else hell be killed. Well have to wait  minutes before we see Jimmy D. again, because were immediately sent back to the past to learn more about Augie. Before we learn All About Augie, however, were assaulted by the onscreen words I wish all moviedom would ban: Based on a true story. That phrase often serves as an excuse for filmmakers to poorly shape scenarios and drama. They think well buy anything because its supposedly true. Well, truth may be stranger than fiction, but it doesnt always result in good fiction. Well meet the real Augie in a snapshot during the closing credits. If this movie accurately reflects the real story, the only question I have for him is how does one live a life built entirely out of old movie clichs? Please teach me how to do this. But I digress. Its hard to get a bead on what The Squeeze wants to be tonally. At its core is yet another one of those tales where small-town folks somehow outwit big-city criminals with schemes so rudimentary and predictable that its hard to fathom how the criminals managed to stay employed in lives of crime. The first  minutes feel like a typical Christian movie, with Jesus and God appearing in almost every line of lousy dialogue. Then it veers away from that tone youll know exactly when it does and becomes a drama about the perils of easy money. Then, it takes a very suspect dive into Las Vegas sleaziness, complete with a minority character serving as an exotic Other representing sex and drugs. It then dives into a completely suspenseless winner-take-all golf gamehustle that ends in what I think is supposed to be comedy.   The story kicks off when the radio broadcast of Augies record-breaking win at his hometown golf course catches the ear of an out-of-towner named Riverboat Christopher MacDonald. Riverboat likes to gamble on golf, and hes apparently quite the success. He and his partner The Bank  Katherine LaNasa seduce Augie with wads of cash he can obtain by helping them hustle unsuspecting fellow gamblers. Augie looks more like a pizza delivery guy than asuccessful golfer the movie literally admits this, so hes the perfect candidate. Plus, he needs the money to help his family out. Its one of these golf hustles that introduces Augie to Las Vegas, Jimmy Diamonds and the fists of Jimmys henchmen. As expected, theres a gorgeous, small-town girl waiting patiently for our hero to get his act together and return to her. In The Squeeze shes called Natalie  Jillian Murray and shes the sassy, sexy, mature and patient voice of reason whose warnings are never heeded in movies like this. You dont have to be Riverboat nor Jimmy Diamonds to know not to bet against the possibility that Natalie will assist in saving Jimmys ass before The Proclaimers torment us with their end-credits earworm. Writer-director  Terry Jastrow has a history producing golf specials and documentaries on TV. Knowing this, I wish hed just made a documentary about the real Augie. Jastrows love of golf shines through when hes lensing the golf scenes, but the drama itself is subpar. The real Augie simply telling his story to the camera would be far more compelling and entertaining than this. In Jastrows defense, the director does get hole-in-one level performances out of MacDonald and Nouri. Nouri isnt given enough screen time to be as effective as MacDonald, but their scenes together make one forget about Sumpters bland character. At one point, Jimmy Diamonds asks have you ever seen the Devil? as Riverboat enters the room, and MacDonald fits Satans shoes nicely. Dressed in suits and a ubiquitous hat, oozing charm and chewing on a Southern accent with the tenacity of  Meryl Streep channeling Foghorn Leghorn, MacDonald makes the movie. Even when hes forced by the screenplay to appear uncharacteristically sinister something Nouris character does better, MacDonald never loses his successful grasp on Riverboat. The Squeeze rides off into the sunset with the wrong duo of characters, leaving the villains in an awful, out of left field comic situation. This would have been forgivable sitting in my apartment back in , watching the cable I stole. As a  NYC movie ticket in , its a sucker bet I wouldnt take. 