The  Heart Machine  is a tries-too-hard title that sounds like a medical drama or perhaps a  robot romance. But it is nothing of the sort. Thank goodness.  Instead, this insightful drama layered with subtle thriller elements  aims for the kind of observations that  Jason Reitmans over-reaching  Men, Women amp' Children failed to fully fulfill regarding humankinds  emotional disconnection in the midst of a digital media explosion. On  the continuum of films about gadget-enhanced lifestyles, The  Heart Machine  lies somewhere between the AOL love letter Youve Got Mail and the  more cautionary  Her on the issue of what effect all this technology is  having on society. While  Reitman went overboard with an excessive amount of obvious story strands  demonstrating the dangers and drawbacks inherent in viewing life  through the artificial prism of Facebook, porn videos, gaming, texting  and escort sites, writerdirector  Zachary Wigon opts for a less  bludgeoning, more introspective approach in his impressive feature  debut. He  places his trust in a pair of attractive, engaging leads and a bustling  though deglamorized urban bubble to do most of the heavy lifting. That  his movie easily summons deserved comparisons to  Catfish,  Vertigo  and even  Blow-Up, thanks to the underlying tension he builds through  his narrative choices and long uncut shots, is admirable indeed.  It  is a simple setup, really. Cody John Gallagher Jr. of TVs The  Newsroom and Short Term  is a -something guy living in Brooklyn  who is in a Skype-reliant relationship with Virginia Mumblecore regular   Kate Lyn Sheil, who is spending an  academic-related six months abroad in Berlin. When we first see them  together, there is an unforced attraction between the two save for the  fact that she is a face on a laptop screen. Virginia  asks Cody to help her choose between two words for a poem she is  writing: fixate vs. obsess. He chooses obsess and thus, her line  becomes, Its bodies we obsess upon, but the minds the prize. There  is a hint of what is to come both in Codys verb preference and  Virginias phrase. It is not long before we learn he is having doubts  about whether she is truly thousands of miles away. After all, they met  on an online dating site and have never physically been together. A  little Facebook digging, some replays of background noises heard in  Virginias supposed European surroundings, a quick check of photos on  Instagram, a glance at Twitter entries it doesnt take much for Cody  to go from slightly suspicious to being as obsessed as  James Stewart  stalking  Kim Novak through the streets of San Francisco.    As  Codys paranoia continues to grow as he hunts down people in the East  Village who might know his long-distance girlfriend, we soon learn that  Virginia isnt exactly upfront about her commitment to him as she uses  hook-up apps for one-night stands and flirts with almost every male who  crosses her path. Cody even attempts to test Virginia during one of  their daily chats by using German words for certain food dishes.  Explaining why she doesnt recognize them, she simply says, Im not  fat. And  then something interesting happens as Wigon further pulls back the  curtain on what exactly is going on. At first, Sheil with her cruel  vamps eyes possesses the assured aloofness of a femme fatale while  Gallagher naturally exudes the kick-back appeal of a dude next door. Yet our sympathies begin to shift at some point from him to her as Cody  stops at little as he creepily invades the privacy of strangers cell  phones and computers, even picking up unwitting women, to find out the  truth about Virginia. At a  certain point, its not about saving a relationship between two people  who supposedly love each other. It is about not wanting to be duped.  Even Cody is confused by his over-reaction but cant stop himself from  finding out the reality no matter how hurtful it might prove to be. Structure-wise,  Wigon probably is too quick to reveal certain key details. I doubt  audiences would have minded if he strung us along for a longer period.  But both Gallagher and Sheil are fully capable of keeping us invested in  their characters, no matter how flawed they might be.  Instead of an explosive climax, The  Heart Machine  quietly winds down by stripping away all the distracting devices and  allowing both us and the protagonists to feel first-hand the situation  they find themselves in at the end. It is devastating. It is sad. And it  may make you want to reach out and hug someone in the flesh.  