Steven Brills The Do-Over, the latest in a multi-picture deal between Netflix and  Adam Sandler, starts like a real movie. At first, theres a sense that its something at least greater than the half-star abomination that was last years The Ridiculous Six. This feeling doesnt last long. By the time this unfunny, sexist, homophobic, stupid movie has reached the hour point, any goodwill created by the set-up is long gone. At one point, I checked the time code on Netflix and saw that the movie had over forty minutes to go. I visibly winced. The set-up is OK at least when compared to the increasing laziness of Sandlers recent output. Sandler plays Max, a smooth-talking guy who runs into an old friend named Charlie  David Spade at a reunion. Charlies life is a mess. His wife Nikki Natasha Leggero is sleeping around with  Sean Astin, his kids hate him, and hes just generally miserable. Reuniting with Max turns him into a goofy teenager again, having fun and avoiding his depressing reality. When Max decides to fake their deaths so they can start over in Puerto Rico, Charlie doesnt object for long. Of course, they cant party it up in their new identities for long without the need for a convoluted Happy Madison plot, and thats when armed men show up and they get involved with the widow  Paula Patton of one of the men whose identities they stole. Narratively, its a film that gets markedly dumber with every passing minute. The Do-Over is the kind of film in which two essentially -year-old men Spade is  and Sandler is  are riding around on a yacht when they spot a few bikini-clad ladies on another vessel. If youre playing Sandler Mad Libs at home, you instantly know that Adam is going to ask the women to flash them. They oblige, but then ask Spades character to return the favor by dropping his trousers, after which they laugh at his dick. Sandler then shoots the women with a flare gun. And the cherry on this Bad Scene Sundae comes with the following in voiceover, I couldnt believe it. I was having the best time of my adult life. Its one of only about three times I laughed out loud while watching The Do-Over, but not for the reasons Sandler wanted. I use this example not just to point out the incredibly low level of humor in The Do-Over, but to note how structurally, tonally disastrous the whole thing is. Like that scene, almost every moment has multiple punchlines. Charlie and Max decide they have to get tattoos and piercings to match the dead guys. Charlie finds a stud, thinks its for his ear, and then learns its for his tongue. Thats the joke. Then we get a wide-eyed shot of it going in. Then we get the swollen tongue the next day. Then we get a scene of him eating a popsicle, unable to talk. Imagine a stand-up comedian who just piles on to one lame joke after another, repeating the punchline with a few words changed. The rhythm isnt there. It feels desperate, almost as if the deal that Sandler worked out with Netflix required that he be paid by the minute. How else to explain the fact that this film is  minutes long? And it feels twice as long as that.   There are really brief spots that work, most of them courtesy of the fearless  Kathryn Hahn, who shows up as Maxs crazy ex. Hahn has the comic timing to make nearly anything work, even this disaster. I wish I could have followed her into a better movie. Although her arrival is right around when most people will realize how sexist this whole thing is. Almost every female character is there to be screwed or to screw the guys over. Or both. This is how Sandlers brand has always portrayed their female characters, but its just increasingly depressing. When the climax of the film features a catfight set to Madonnas Crazy For You, in slow motion, I shouldnt be surprised, but that doesnt make it any more forgivable. For years now, Adam Sandler has been making movies to bankroll his vacations. Thats why most of  Just Go With It takes place in Hawaii.  Blended actually shot in South Africa. Sandler gets his buddies together, finds a studio to pay for them all to take a vacation, and loosely writes a movie set in his chosen destination screenwriting credit goes to  Kevin Barnett and  Chris Pappas. This time it was Puerto Rico, and Sandler puts in the same degree of effort as his disastrous theatrical Vacation Comedies." Youd think by now that someone would figure this out. Maybe the studios did and thats why Sandler ran to the remarkably open checkbook of Netflix. Maybe one day, theyll read the script before they book the plane tickets. Or at least make sure he's got one. 