What a tortured path The King and the Mockingbird has taken to reach theaters in the United States, and what a treat it is for us to be able to experience it now. The French animated gem which massively influenced Hayao Miyazaki in the creation of his legendary Studio Ghibli originally was conceived in the early s, but became tangled in creative differences over which finished cut was the proper one. While it finally came out in France in , it has been mired ever since in rights issues since, which have prevented its release in the U.S. Now, a digitally restored version arrives in spectacular fashion with its mixture of bold imagery and biting wit.  Directed by the late, venerated animator  Paul Grimault and written by poet and screenwriter  Jacques Prevert, The King and the Mockingbird is based on a  Hans Christian Andersen story, but its themes of repression and rebellion are timeless. The pompous King Charles voiced by Pascal Mazzotti, who hates his subjects and is equally hated in return, rules over the amusingly named land of Takicardia. His underlings and hangers-on run around so frantically trying to fulfill his every wish, you can imagine that their hearts are pounding. This kings cold and imposing castle stretches  stories into the sky and houses everything from a royal pedicurist to a zoo to various types of prisons. The look of the place and the costumes the characters wear are deeply, richly colorful reminiscent of princess-era Disney classics but this is no cheeky, self-referential fairy tale turned on its head. The King and the Mockingbird may feature talking birds and dancing lions, but its a cutting, satirical statement about the perils of power run amok and the terror of totalitarianism. At the top of the kings palace lies his secret apartment, which is home to some of his most beloved artwork chiefly, his portrait of a beautiful and innocent shepherdess Agnes Viala with whom hes desperately in love. What he doesnt know is that when hes asleep, the shepherdess and the chimney sweep in the adjacent canvas Renaud Marx have been carrying on a sweet and tender affair. In one of many examples of the films playful use of space, the two figures hold hands between their respective frames until the day they find the courage to leap out and explore the outside world together. Grimault depicts the castle as a place thats dizzying in its boundlessness, from seemingly eternal staircases to secret passageways that magically appear out of nowhere.    Then an incarnation of the king in painting form sends out his loyal but bumbling police force to chase after the young lovers and stop them so that he can marry the shepherdess himself. But the couple gets help thwarting him at every turn from the one character in the kingdom who does not worship the monarchy: the brash and trash-talking Mr. Bird  Jean Martin, a brightly-feathered raconteur. Eventually, the bird needs some help of his own once he becomes the captive victim of the kings tyranny.  The King and the Mockingbird accomplishes a great deal wordlessly, and this is especially true as the films tone turns bleaker and its look turns darker in oppressive, industrial ways in the third act. Surrealism remains the order of the day, but the mood of the film shifts seamlessly from impish, silly adventures to grotesque and nightmarish suffering. And then the giant robot arrives.  Just when you think the film couldnt possibly get any stranger, it does, in beautiful and imaginative ways. The young couple may be headed for their happily-ever-after, but you couldnt possibly imagine how theyll get there. 