In this weeks installment of What The Hell Is  Nicolas Cage Starring In Now?, we have an unusual political drama composed of several individual parts, which arent all that awful, yet create a big old mess in this particular combination. Let it never be said that What The Hell Is Nicolas Cage Starring In Now? stints on surprises.  The Runner is the feature writingdirectorial debut of Austin Stark, whose name is attached to a handful of intriguing indie films, including s  Hello I Must Be Going. In that and other cases, its attached in a producing capacity. The movie begins with a montage explaining partially the movies title. Cages character pulls a pair of running shoes from a shelf hes got a bunch of them and, in his Tulane t-shirt, goes for a brisk run. Soon we learn that the movies set in , in the immediate aftermath of the BP Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and that Cages character, Colin Price, is a Congressman from Louisiana. His impassioned House speech decrying the economic impact of the man-made disaster suddenly makes him a man of the moment. His longtime right-hand man and buddy Frank Wendell Pierce sees a Senate run opportunity. See, thats where the other meaning of the title comes in. But Price has high ideals. When his wife, Deborah Connie Nielsen, herself a powerful attorney, drags him to a meeting with an arrogant, deep-pocketed oil lobbyist  Bryan Batt, Price lets the guy know he cant be bought. But like so many Potentially Great Men, Price has a character flaw, which, as one character puts it, albeit less delicately than this, involves his inability to keep one of his organs securely tucked in his trousers. When the press gets a hold of some elevator cam footage of him getting frisky with the African-American wife of an African American now-unemployed fishermanwell, yow, as they say. The subsequent scandal sends Frank and consultant Kate Sarah Paulsen into a spin control tailspin, while Deborah can see only what she thought was the couples shared ambition even as she swallows her wifely humiliation. Then theres Prices old-school politico father, bearing a kit bag of Issues both Daddy and Ideological.  Peter Fonda plays him, in a really exceptional performance that tempers the characters venal bluster with frighteningly convincing portrayals of failing health I hope its just makeup that makes Fonda look so realistically jaundiced here.  As you see, these plot elements, and the actors, have all the makings of a truly juicy and thought-provoking political melodrama. So its dispiriting to see filmmaker Stark create such a weird, jagged hash out of them. For its first forty minutes or so, The Runner plays like a less energetic  Rod Lurie movie. Then the movie makes its lurch into potential-personal-redemption-through-love territory, and starts feeling like a middle-aged variant of a  Cameron Crowe romance. Then theres a scene in which Cage stumbles into a New Orleans bar in which the musical entertainment is a trombone and vibraphone duo. I guess this is the  David Lynch section of the movie. By its final fifteen minutes, the movie settles into a very humorless retread of the cynical-realist s political comedy The Candidate. Which kind of misses several points. Lacking the sharp edge of that film, or the often irrational passion that for better or worse drives Luries movies not to mention some of  Oliver Stones, The Runner squanders at least one great performance Fondas and delivers a dispiritingly inert cinematic experience. 