I hesitate to call "TheGreasyStrangler" a horror-comedy because it's more surreal than humorous. The key distinction between humor and surreality is whether or not a joke is played for laughs. Many of the gags in "TheGreasyStrangler" aren't really funny, but ratherrepulsive, confusing and annoying. That's not a knock, but rather anobservation. This is, after all, a film where a disco-obsessedolder man who looks like a spray-tannedSpaldingGrey wearing a Beethoven wig competes with his pathetically nebbishson thinning hair, clunky grandma glasses, ugly turtlenecks, prominent gut to win the affection of the only woman deluded enough to beinterested in them both frizzyLucille Ball-style redwig, squat, overweight. Oh, and the father's the murderous,grease-obsessed title character, and he frequently lets hispenis itlooks like a dehydrated tuber with an angryredtip hang out for no apparent reason. Is any of this funny? Sometimes, though not often. Is that intentional? Well, that's debatable. Is it worth seeing? Yes, but only if you enjoy being grossed out. The best way to pin down a movie as elusive as "TheGreasyStrangler" is to start bydescribing its pointedly inane, frequentlyrepetitive, and sometimes productively weird plot. Big Ronnie Michael St. Michaels allows his son Big Brayden Sky Elobar to live with himon the condition that he cooksgreasyfood for him. Brayden thinks nothing of this, though his dad frequently objects to how "dry" his food is. The two run a lame disco-centric walking tour, where Ronnie, a pathological liar, tells tall tales abouthistoric moments involving discogroups like the Bee Gees and Earth, Wind amp' Fire. Braydenmeets Janet  Elizabeth De Razzo on one of these tours, and instantly falls for her. This bothers Ronnie because Ronnie is a creep, and he doesn't want to be separated from his son. So Ronnie tries to break Janet and Brayden up by seducing Janet. Sounds normal enough, right? Did I mention that Ronnie goes out at night covered in olive-colored grease and murders people while cartoonish neo-New-Wave-stylesynthesizer music blats out a beat? He goes on a tear, killing civilians, like the Indian tourist  Sam Dissanayake whose only distinguishing characteristic is histendencytowardsverbal diarrhea. Then he cleans himself in a car wash run by blindBig Paul  Gil Gex. And then he starts his day over with Brayden. Dialogueis often performed in a deliberately stilted manner, so a typicalsentence like"I've been making my own olive oil in my bedroom, extra virgin" inexplicablybecomes four inter-related sentences. Nudity is frequent, and often more bizarre than titillating, like when Ronnie imagines Janet walking down the street naked save for a pair of heels while walking a dog. And humor often boils down todead air andvariations on scatologicalrunning jokes, like all of theshouting matches between Ronnie and Brayden that devolve into them yelling "bullshit artist" at each other. The charms of "TheGreasyStrangler," such as they are, are only interesting if you like weird movies that rub their weirdness in your face. The film's conclusion puts the rest of it into focus, particularly a dream-like sequence where Brayden and Ronnie observe doppelgnger versions of themselves being shot by hunters. It's a weirdly liberating moment, because now that they orversions of them aredead,these characters are free to be as disgusting and feral as they want to be. That's the movie in a nutshell, a weird exploration of the limits of bad taste that sometimes tells funny jokes, but often just tests your patience and usually deliberately.   I can't strongly recommend "TheGreasyStrangler" for this reason, but I can tell you that its creators are occasionally so inspired that I found much of the rest of the film intriguing. Each frame of the film is hyper-composed to the point of warranting comparisons to panels in a comic book. This is funny unto itself since your eye can't help but gravitate towards grotesque objects within the frame, like the see-through window in Ronnie's purple crotchless jumpsuit, or De Razzo's rearwhen she squeezes her cheeks togetherwhile bellowing "Hooty tooty disco cutie! Hooty tooty disco cutie!" And who could resist the scene where Ronnie randomly starts dancing by himself after a floodlight turns on him, and he begins shuffling down the street as if he were a decrepit version of  Michael Jackson in the "Billy Jean" music video? There should be way more scenes where that came from, but I'm still gobsmacked over the ones we got. At this point, I confess that I probably like "TheGreasyStrangler" more than I care to admit even to myself. It's a strange film that only gets stranger the more you think about it. Just describe a scene aloud, and you'll find yourself flummoxed by how vividly upsettingit is. I won't see another movie like it this year, that's for sure.  