If you or, more likely, someone you love, but I shouldnt presume in any event are in the market for an effective Young Adult tearjerker, The Great Gilly Hopkins will get the job done. Directed by  Stephen Herek from  David Patersons adaptation of  Katherine Patersons YA novel, The Great Gilly Hopkins is a spectacularly foursquare family is what you make it redemption story. The kind of thing that film critics like to dismiss as looking like a made-for-TV movie, as if that comparisonanalogy even holds as a dismissal anymore.    Which is not to say that the movie as it stands has any real cinematic distinction. Director Herek brings his Mr. Hollands Opus game here, but if youve spent any time with the filmmakers body of work, you already know that his Bill amp' Teds Excellent Adventure game is not appreciably edgier. The man knows how to lay out whatever hes called upon to lay out. That is, coherently. For any emotional content he leaves things to his actors.   Hes got a good bunch of them here. Canadian teen actor  Sophie Nlisse plays the title role, a young girl in foster care who we know is not terribly well-off emotionally because her hair is so flat. Her attitude stinks, too. Dropped off by a child services worker at the house of beaming kindly Christian Maime Trotter  Kathy Bates in milk-of-human-kindness mode, Gilly behaves in such an immediately insufferable fashion that youre practically rooting for her to get kicked out on to the street. Or for Bates to get some of her Annie Wilkes mojo back. Gilly terrifies the emotionally damaged little boy whos also living in the ramshackle but warm-hearted house. She literally steals from the blind man living across the street, a kindly fellow played beautifully by  Bill Cobbs. The movie, naturally, wants to have things both ways, so Gilly is also depicted as having terrific pluck shes pretty badass with the male bullies at her school, too.   And of course, behind all this is the revelation that she aint no delinquent, shes misunderstood. All Gilly really wants is a real family life with her mom, who abandoned her as an infant and whose life she imagines as spectacularly glamorous. That said mom is played by  Julia Stiles, giving this critic the first strong Man, am I old shiver that hes had at a screening since, well, forever. This excuse did not, for this viewer, contain as much water as it was intended to. For instance, Gilly finds herself doing better in school than she intended her strategy has been to get kicked out of every situation in which shes been placed, the better to free herself for Mom Pursuit and so decides to alienate her African-American schoolteacher  Octavia Spencer by PRETENDING to be racist. The thing about pretend racism is that, in order to pull it off imagining that you would want to, of course, you have to say andor do actual racist things, which are ugly and hard to forgive. I suppose this plot point is indicative of a desire to make contemporary familyredemption tales more relevantrealisticpertinent, but I found the whole episode just plain ugly, despite the teachers humane reaction and Spencers as-ever expert depiction of it.   Gilly is found out, in a sense, just as shes beginning to appreciate the good thing shes got in Trotter and the kid and the nice blind man and all. And then along comes the Third Act  Glenn Close Surprise Plot Twist. A monkey wrench is once more thrown into Gillys schemes, and a final confrontation with Pursued Mom ensues Stiles shows up so fleetingly that one is surprised she doesnt split by saying, Sorry, Ive got another Bourne movie to get to. Still, the climax gets its redemptive job done. And Gilly gets a very becoming new hairstyle in the bargain.   Did I find myself getting a little choked up by the end? I did. Its a great cast that knows its business. If it can get someone whos so out of its core demographic a little verklempt, imagine what it can do for someone whos a target for such fare. Arrange your moviegoing weekend accordingly. 