The Trip films constitute the only movie franchise that matters. This is in large part because the movies themselves have absolutely no concern with being the kinds of pictures that matter. There are three such movies so far, all directed by  Michael Winterbottom and all chopped down from mini-series of about double the features length, and all starring comedic actors  Steve Coogan and  Rob Brydon. The movies, which started in  with the just-plain  The Trip depict Coogan and Brydon, playing themselves, tooling around a country sampling sites and restaurants, ostensibly for novelty newspaper pieces. The two play versions of themselves, and the attached storylines, which never really amount to anything crucial, center around the personal and professional anxieties of the two men. Coogan is more of an international hot property than Brydon, and has the inflated ego to prove it, but hes also way more neurotic and insecure about the state of affairs than Brydon. But this sort of back-and-forth is of course merely narrative glue to hold together scenes in which the two masters try to outdo each other with competing celebrity impressions that are noteworthy and hilarious not just for their levels of accuracy but for the absurdist semi-satirical wit they yield.    What they do best is of course exemplified in the second film in the series, s The Trip To Italy, in which Coogan and Brydon riff on the Dark Knight films by analyzing the two types of delivery  Christian Bale uses in them as Batman and Bruce Wayne and moving on to the unintelligibility-at-any-speed of  Tom Hardys Bane, and winding up of course with their dueling  Michael Caine impressions. Your mileage may vary, but for me, that scene is a measuring stick of hilarity. Pretty much every time I watch it, I almost hyperventilate with laughter by the time they get to the I dont want to bury another Batman stuff.   If you feel similarly, you dont need me to recommend The Trip To Spain. Youll be on board, and you should be, because it has the goods. It begins with Coogan flying in from New York, with a crisp short haircut and an ego boosted by an Academy Award nomination for screenwriting  Philomena, while Brydon is enjoying domesticity and child-rearing about as much as one is able when one of the children is two. While Coogan and Brydon play their ostensible selves, the people in their lives, including Coogans son Joe, are fictional characters played by actors. The newspaper offer is now a joint one, from the British Observer and the New York Times, and the publications will ask the duo to pose as Don Quixote and Sancho Panza at a photo shoot during the trip. You can guess whos who. Except that when Coogan calls Los Angeles to talk to his agent about capitalizing on his screenwriting success, hes found that said agent has left the firm, and hes now being handled by his old agents former assistant. Later on, Brydon is surprised to get a call from Los Angeles  from, youll never guess, Coogans former agent, who promises Brydon the moon, including a shot at hosting the Golden Globes.   It is fitting and proper that none of these plot machinations ever pop during the films running time. Insofar as theyre pertinent its only relative to the fact that the actors, and their characters, are turning fifty, and thats a stock-taking time. Were ripe fruit, Coogan says to Brydon with unusual enthusiasm. You want to be plucked. Both men are trim even as they engorge themselves on a variety of Spanish delicacy, including barbecue and what one of them calls life-affirming butter. The dimension of humanity only buttresses the humor. There are more bits here than in the prior films, and with one exception, they dont go on as long. As the men ferry from England to Spain early in the film, we see Brydon in his cabin working on his  Roger Moore impersonation. This pays off late in the movie when Coogan tries to show off his knowledge of Spanish history and the rule of the, you know, Moors. Its only here that the movie pulls the trick of extending a joke until its not funny and then extending it further so it becomes not just funny again but funnier. Along the way, the movie has fun with buskers,  Mick Jagger, and even the late  David Bowie, who Brydon says very nearly name-checked him as a favorite funnyman on a radio interview except that he forgot Brydons actual name. All this and the s pop hit The Windmills of your Mind. I can hardly wait for the next one. 