Theres something Ive noticed in a couple indie pictures lately, and Im wondering if its a trick that competent editors suggest to give a little oomph to movies. Ill call it The Unnecessary In Medias Res. The movie will open on a scene of relative zippiness or suspense, ending on whats meant to be a suggestive indeterminate note. Then a title will come on screen:  Hours Before, Two Weeks Ago, Three Months Ago, or some such thing. The film will then go on, telling its narrative, and eventually it will catch up with the scene that began it. What will follow will make sense not just in the context of the larger plot but satisfy the viewer as to why the scene was put at the beginning of the movie, out of sequence, in the first place. BUT, in less accomplished movies, the viewer is left asking, whyd all this have to be in flashback? This year I saw the device used with almost comic blatancy in the worthless thriller  Misconduct. And it pops up again here in "The Family Fang," and proves completely unnecessary. The movie opens with a sequence made to look as if it was shot on video tape, a documentary of a little kid holding up a bank in the s. Theres a twist, and it has to do with the very nature of the family cited in the title, and that twist is the first and really only effective bit of manipulation in the entire film. The archive footage would have made a pretty compelling opening to the movie in and of itself. Instead, the movie then cuts to a depressed-looking  Nicole Kidman in a dark room watching the footage on television, popping out the cassette, and leaving the room, as the camera pans to a corkboard festooned with maps and news articles about the disappearance of a pair of once-prominent conceptual and performance artists. And then  flashback time.  Directed by co-star  Jason Bateman, from a script by David Lindsay-Abaire, based on a novel by  Kevin Wilson, The Family Fang is largely noteworthy for the specific place it locates generational resentment. Bateman and Kidman play siblings, advanced adults no longer living up to their early promise. Once a Guy-In-Your-MFA tyro novelist, Batemans Baxter is now years past the deadline for his next book. Kidmans Annie, an actress, has drunk her way out of a recurring role in a lucrative superhero franchise and is reduced to being wheedled into nude scenes by abusive directors of lame indies. Where is the locus of their dysfunction? Of course, in the larger family unit: their parents, Caleb and Camille, performanceconceptual artists of the s and s who forced their kids whom Caleb initially referred to merely as Child A and Child B to participate in stunt-like pieces. Many of which are recreated in further flashbacks.  Theres an interesting reactionary quality in the way the movie makes conceptual art its straw man, standing in for Irresponsible Parenting By The Counterculture. I dont know if the Revenge Of Gen X And Or Y subtext was very strong in Wilsons novel I can hazard a guess though, that when he was writing it, he probably envisioned  Wes Anderson as the Dream Director for the film adaptation, but here it flounders just like every other aspect of the movie, including the what really happened plot thread of Caleb and Camilles disappearance shortly after they rudely reintroduce themselves into their childrens lives.   While the cast keeps its head down and reaches for genuine emotion, the movie eventually manages to sentimentalize even what it sees as its own tough-mindedness. The major exception, and the reason Im rating this movie higher than I would otherwise, is  Christopher Walken. His commitment to making Caleb as thoroughly unlikable as humanly possible yields a character whos kind of terrifyingly off-putting even when his words and actions are ineffectual. A piece of acting alchemy of which only few are capable. I cant imagine how powerful it might have been in a better movie. 