The Drop is just how I like my  Tom Hardyin nearly every scene. His notorious jailbird in  Bronson was just too savage. His Batman arch-nemesis Bane in  The Dark Knight Rises was too unintelligible. His recent solo tour-de-force behind the wheel in  Locke was too much of a gimmick. And while this terrific British actor purred his way through  Inception like a randy tomcat on a hot night, there just wasnt nearly enough of him onscreen. Now here comes The Drop, a solid, occasionally gripping crime thriller based on a short story by  Dennis Lehane  Mystic River,  Gone Baby Gonemaking his screenwriting debutand directed by Belgiums  Michael R. Roskam whose unsettling  Bullhead was a foreign-language Oscar nominee. There is a whole lot of Hardy going on, and The Drop is at its best when we can observe how the actor slowly peels away the layers from his character in a finely calibrated performance that builds to a satisfying full reveal in the final act. Hardys Bob Saginowski is a dark horse of a Brooklyn bartender who excels at keeping his head down and looking the other way whenever the Chechen mobsters who own the place launder their ill-gotten money by way of a drop at the drinking establishment. This slice of working-class gang life is extra notable as the final film appearance by the late, great  James Gandolfiniperfectly fine as Marv, Bobs cousin and boss, who turns out to be the sort of desperate type that Tony Soprano would have had disposed of with nary a blink. But this is Hardys show all the way, never more so than when he innocently corrects a humorless Marv when he refers to the gangsters as Chechyans. As Bobwho knows better than to insult dangerous menexplains, I think its like how you dont call people from Ireland Irelandians. Quietly compelling can be harder to do than obviously showy, but Hardy handily establishes Bob as a soft-spoken sweetheart early on as he comps shots to the regulars as they salute the anniversary of a friends passing and allows a lonely old woman to hang out all day on Marvs special bar stool. There is a kind of gentle-giant masculinity in Hardys demeanor, accented by his cuddly cold-weather attire, that recalls the early  Sylvester Stallone as Bob dutifully attends Mass and sweeps up after hours. The catalyst for the plot is a late-night visit to the bar by two masked robbers, a heist that proves much more complicated than it first appears. To spill too many beans would spoil what happens, but lets just say the Chechenswho have no qualms about driving around town in their work van while torturing an unlucky associate in the back as blood drips through the floor like leaky motor oilwant the , that went missing and they want it now. Soon, Marv is in over his head and resorts to measures that are destined to backfire.   Meanwhile, Bobs insular life is turned around when he passes by a garbage can on the way home and hears an animal whimpering inside. Rocky Balboa had his pet turtles, Cuff and Link. And Bob has Rocco, an abused puppy who soon becomes his adorable companion. Make what you will of the fact that the dog is a pit bull, a breed thatrightly or wronglyhas a rep for suddenly turning vicious. But it is curious how Bob always skips the line for Communion at church, suggesting that he wants to avoid going to confession. There is also an Adrian counterpart who enters Bobs life in the form of Nadia  Noomi Rapace of  Prometheus and the original Swedish version of The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, who owns the trash container where Rocco was found. A former employee at an animal shelter, she agrees to tutor Bob on how to tend to his new best friend and even offers to dog sit. Soon, he and Nadia start to become close companions as well, although he remains a gentleman throughout their time together. And, soon, he will learn that both she and Rocco used to belong to a onetime psychiatric patient and purported killer named Eric Deeds. Deeds played by Flemish actor  Matthias Schoenaerts, a standout in Bullhead as well as last years Rust and Bone, who likes to unexpectedly show up at peoples houses to get their attention, is determined to get both the pup and Nadia back. As the climax builds to Super Bowl Sundaywhen the biggest drop of the year is expected it becomes clear that Bob, if he wants to assure the safety of Rocco and Nadia as well as hold off the gangsters, will have to make some difficult decisions. Roskam captures the gritty run-of-the-mill milieu, including the cluttered lower-income houses filled with a lifetime of worthless tchotchkes, and knows how to build tensionthis is one of those films where you expect the worse to happen around every corner and down every alley.   Not everything is perfect with The Drop. There is an on-the-ball detective  John Ortiz, a stage veteran who was  Bradley Coopers friend in  Silver Linings Playbook investigating the robbery who suspects there is more to Bob and the situation at the bar than meets the eye, but his involvement turns out to be peripheral at best. The terrific  Ann Dowd of TVs The Leftovers barely gets a chance to make an impression as Marvs fed-up sister. And as good as Schoenaerts is, he isnt consistently convincing as an unstable creep. But if you have been itching to witness Hardy at full throttle, here is your chance. The actor should be, by all rights, at the same level by now as  Michael Fassbender and  Benedict Cumberbatch, two other fantastically talented U.K. imports who have built up passionate cults in recent years. The Drop is a good start. But lets hope that when Hardy takes his bow as the lead in the resurrected Mad Max: Fury Road next May, he will get the full notice and opportunities that he rightly deserves. 