Rob Burnetts The Fundamentals of Caring, released theatrically today as well on Netflix after premiering at Sundance, expands on its title with the acronym ALOHA Ask, Listen, Observe, Help, Ask Again. These are the fundamental requirements of a caregiver, as explained to  Paul Rudds Ben, a retired writer trying to cope with unimaginable grief by essentially finding a surrogate son for the one he lost. Of course, the film exists to prove the rather simplistic ALOHA incorrect. Theres more to caring than any acronym could convey, and it is often the unexpected relationships we forge in life that get us over the emotional hurdles. Sadly, Burnetts film, based on Jonathan Evisons book, simplifies too many of its themes, choosing to wallow in melodrama and forced clich instead of character. The only reason its not unbearably saccharine is that Paul Rudd, again, grounds a film in something that feels genuine. Hes never an actor that comes across forced, and he does his best to find the truth in Burnetts overwritten script. The Fundamentals of Caring is one of those films in which we meet a man who wont sign his divorce papers but know, because weve seen movies before, that he will by the final scene. Its a lesson movie, one in which were going to watch people start off in places of grief and bitterness and evolve towards happiness. Now, theres something to be said for films that do this well. They teach us that we are all capable of more than we think we are, that even our darkest days will be followed by light. Its one of the reasons cinema can still be a powerful artistic force for good, and inherent in what  Roger Ebert defined as the empathy machine of film. And yet its not hard to tell when that empathy feels unearned or manipulative. The characters in The Fundamentals of Caring arent real people as much as they are strings waiting to tug at your heart. Bens first client as a caregiver is Trevor  Craig Roberts, an angry -year-old with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Trevor is aggressive and difficult, opening up the interview process with Ben demanding to know how he would wipe his ass which will be one of Bens duties. He tries to shock Ben, but even this is done with such broad comedy that it feels like weak attempts at shock value. Yes, some kids in wheelchairs want blowjobs from Katy Perry and fake choking to scare their caregivers. Every time that Trevor does something outrageous, it should illuminate how he has pushed people away to protect himself emotionally, but it lacks realism and teeth. Trevor is like a device, a way to chart Bens journey from grief to happiness, and that leaves the whole piece a bit hollow. The Fundamentals of Caring really loses focus when the road trip on which Ben and Trevor are going picks up a couple of passengers, including a troubled young lady named Dot  Selena Gomez for Trevor to flirt with and a very pregnant woman named Peaches  Megan Ferguson, who has a husband serving overseas. As this caravan of clichs motored deeper into melodrama toward a lesson-learning ending my interest waned. And yet Rudd has an amazing ability to sell a cheesy line like Its the only reason were here, regarding parenthood. Even as Burnett is doubling down on the clichs, Rudd finds ways to ground it. If youre a fan, its an acting feat worth checking out. Everyone else may want to Ask Again for something better. 