The story behind The Wolfpack, one of this years buzziest Sundance docs, is one of that blessed event in filmmaking blind luck. Director  Crystal Moselle was walking down an NYC street one day when she saw six young men in suits and sunglasses coming in the other direction. They passed by her and Moselle had the instinct to turn around and ask them their story. And what a story she heard. The Angulo brothers six young men with similar features and long black hair brought her up to their tiny apartment, shared with a shy mother and aggressive father. Moselle learned that the Angulos had barely been allowed to leave this apartment over the course of their entire existence, raised in a secluded, near-cult family, allegedly driven by father Oscars fear of the real world. With an abusive father and no contact with the outside world, the Angulos became obsessed with feature films, writing out scripts for flicks like  Reservoir Dogs and  Pulp Fiction by pausing the DVDs and then reenacting them in fine detail. Film became their only portal to the real world, their way to express their fears and desires. And Moselle caught these boys just as they were moving from a world lit by a television tube to one with sunlight. Clearly, Moselle had instant affection for the Angulo boys. Its hard not to. They are remarkably sweet and gentle, and the sadness in their eyes, especially the older ones, when they discuss their heartbreaking upbringing and fear of the real world is the kind that makes you want to give them a hug. Early in The Wolfpack, the older boys ask if she got up to their apartment OK, as if something bad would happen to her in the lobby, and are excited to cook dinner for their special guest. Its clear from Moselles verit style, in which she doesnt often seem to ask follow-up questions but let the boys come to their own emotional conclusions, that she was very concerned about these young men, as anybody would be. But the arms-length approach can be frustrating. There are times when the Angulos seem to be directing The Wolfpack more than Moselle, and its an incredible story that would have benefited from a surer hand. Despite the sense sometimes that Moselle isnt driving Wolfpack in the way needed to make it truly work, she undeniably finds some beautiful moments in the trajectory of the Angulos, although they are sometimes so fleeting as to frustrate when they arent further developed. The most striking moment comes when an Angulo says that We were frightened kidsthats one of the first memories I have, when discussing the abusive Oscar, who one claims ended every fight with mom with a slap. Moselle then cuts to a figure of Mukunda, the most reflective of the boys, in a detailed Batman costume, before reenacting  The Dark Knight. Do the boys relate to macho, male-driven films because they havent had a decent male role model in their lives? Are they drawn to the melancholy of Nolans take on the character because it reflects their own?  Much of The Wolfpack is undeniably moving, especially as the boys come out into the real world, frightened and unsure of themselves. They see big fking trees and compare them  The Lord of the Rings. They see  The Fighter and are happy that their ticket money will go to  Christian Bale. Theres a nave, heartwarming approach to the power of cinema in The Wolfpack that clearly appealed to the cinephiles in Park City.  Could Moselle have found a way to make this incredible story into an incredible film? Part of the problem may be that she came upon the Angulos at the time they were emerging from their near imprisonment and that made her hesitant to pry into their pasts for fear of placing blocks in what seems like a road to recovery, as anybody would be. When mom says that she grew up in the Midwest and thinks public school socialization is not that good, anybody would almost feel impolite to pry further into her background or the falsity of that belief. And yet thats what separates great documentaries from good ones.   