Toggling between engaging meta-narratives  Hour Party People, A Cock And Bull Story, The Trip, its sequel The Trip To Italy and more conventionally-told fare The Claim,  Code ,  A Mighty Heart, director  Michael Winterbottom has been one of the more distinctive and engaging cinematic voices of the past  years or so. I know that Ive enjoyed and been moved or intrigued by almost all the movies of his Ive seen although I considered Heart a bit of a misfire, so it was a little disconcerting to watch The Face of an Angel and witness the director returning to some familiar ideas and tropes, and ending up with so little to show for them.  Like his most recent U.S. feature release, The Trip To Italy, The Face of an Angel takes place in, well, take a guess. But while Trip gave us a couple of real-life comedians playing themselves and tooling around beautiful countrysides and eating like kings and doing incredible Michael Caine impersonations, Angel offers us  Daniel Bruhl in the role of a dissolute, hard-up filmmaker coming to the country to research a film aboutaiieeeethe Amanda Knox murder case. Only its not really about the Amanda Knox murder case. Heres where things get tricky, as they tend to do in Winterbottoms films see Party People, in which almost all the characters would address the camera directly, real-life figures from the scene it depicted popped up in pointed cameos, and so on, as just one example: all the names have been changed into fictionalized characters, but the details are all extremely similar. AND, the credited source material for the movie is a real-life nonfiction book about the real case by a journalist named  Barbie Latza Nadeau. Who is here made into a character named Simone Ford and played by  Kate Beckinsale. Simone does this and that, as she explains to Bruhls Thomas, contributing to The Daily Beast lucky her and shes got a suitably cynical expat perspective of the sort that was satirized trenchantly by Waugh and others over the years. Indeed, Thomas varying exchanges with the English-speaking journos covering the case bring to mind Hildy Johnsons sarcastic gentlemen of the press! greeting in the classic His Girl Friday. As he feels pressure from British-based producers, wrangles with the end of his marriage, and falls into what we can presume to be a pattern of drug abuse, Bruhls Thomas also tries to come to grips with his material. As he types his script, we see it enacted on screen. We also see his nightmares of cuckolding and murder. We also see his paranoid hallucinations after he rents a flat from a sinister fellow who wants him to read one of his own scripts. Theres also the matter of his falling into bed with Simone of course and falling in a sort of infatuation with a student-abroad bartender Cara Delevinge who, in a rather staggering bit of contrivance, lends him Dantes La Vita Nuova. Jeez, guys, this routine didnt work in Paul Schraders Cat People remake, either.  Its all very pretty to look at and some of the actors are engaging okay, Delevinge, who looks like a cross between young Melissa Joan Hart and young  Judith Godreche, if you can imagine such a thing well I guess you wouldnt really have to imagine is engaging. To get at the heart of whats wrong with The Face of an Angel all you need to do is consider the professional stones it takes to adapt the Amanda Knox case into yet another movie about the existentialamorous crises of a white male filmmaker. And then have the nerve to dedicate the results to the memory of the murder-victim in the real-life case! What might have looked provocative on paper winds up looking kind of cheap and opportunistic on screen, leaving Thomas petulant complaint, I dont want to make a film about fear or death or killing' I want to make a film about love, ringing hollow in ones ears at the end. As of this moment, the only Italy-based Michael Winterbottom film worth seeing is the one in which the two guys do Michael Caine.   