The Romanian director  Corneliu Porumboiu has a style thats likely and Im being super-optimistic here a potentially acquired taste for mainstream American moviegoers. His best-known picture in this country is s  Police, Adjective, a tense and mordantly funny drama whose examination of the ethics of law-enforcement which climaxes in a marathon scene centered around the definition of the word police, hence the movies title gained extra resonance for being made and set in a country that was for much of the  th  century more or less a police state. His best movies embody a kind of stylistic paradox: they are slow-paced, but also narratively concise' they contain long, slow scenes in which nothing in particular happens but they also feel entirely fat-free. Porumboius new picture The Treasure is entirely in keeping with that mode but also expands on it, with disarmingly delightful results. It is in a sense the directors first out-and-out comedy, and its also something of a fairytale. No sooner has the movie begun, with working man Costi  Toma Cuzin invoking Robin Hood to gain his sons pardon for picking him up from school late, than the not-thematically-unrelated premise pops up: Costis neighbor Adrian Adrian Parcarescu knocks on the door and requests an  Euro loan. Costis pretty strapped for cash himself, so he demurs, but soon Adrian is spinning an intriguing tale: he wants the money to buy a metal detector to go searching for buried treasure in the yard of a relatives house in the country. Its a ridiculous idea on its face, and Costis wife implies as much, as they sit in their kitchen and discuss it. The white tile of that room is identical to that seen in Adrians apartment, and it brings home the humdrum nature of existence for the lower middle class in Bucharest' its like theyre all actually living on the set of THX-." And even Costi and Adrians soon-shared dream of riches has a societal catch: if what they uncover is determined to have state heritage value theyre obliged to turn over the find to authorities, who will allow the duo to have  of its worth. Costi soon finds a metal-detectortreasure hunting expert named Cornel  Corneliu Cozmei whos willing to cut some corners and most importantly not rat out the fellows, and soon theyre in the village of Islaz with picks and shovels and a metal detector whose annoying noise means real encouragement for their prospects. Once there, the fellows discover that digging for treasure is no picnic, and Porumboiu is painstaking in depicting the hard labor and quiet frustration. By this time the movie has found a quiet comic tone thats terrifically dry and droll. Trying to mask his activities from his boss, Costi goes along with that fellows suggestions that hes involved in an extramarital affair, which admission first elicits the mans nudge-nudge-wink-wink approval, then his mild disapprobation. Its good absurdist stuff, a little reminiscent of the work of Aki Kaurismki, albeit without that filmmakers wooly-headed whimsy. It does help, though, to be a good Godot person if youre going to appreciate the push-mepull-you tensions of the digging scene.   After which come a few twists, which lead up to a denouement that, surprisingly enough, may prove richly satisfying to viewers more accustomed to conventional fare, provided theyve been able to stick it out. The films final scene is both charming and hilarious and puts a delightful ribbon on top of what the films opening so sneakily established. Im not sure if Porumboius choice of a closing song its by Laibach, just to let you know is meant to undercut the ending or not. I dont think it does. And even if it does, Im not too concerned. 