The first two or three major setpieces in the South Korean action film "The Villainess" feel like a tossed gauntlet.In these early scenes, writerdirector Byung-gil Jung confirms his status as a filmmaker to watch through his brazen, often effective use of long takes, trick photography, copious gore, and ostentatiousfightchoreography. We watch as mysterious killer Sook-hee Ok-bin Kim slaughters her way through rooms full of hiredassassins, then races through a disorienting labyrinth of nearby rooms. We don't always literally see through Sook-hee's eyes in these opening minutes, but there's often a "you are there" immediacy to the film's photography, an impression that's further emphasized by Jung's use of distorted fish-eye lenses, his camera's in-the-thick-of-it physical proximity to Kim,and the extras that her character so handily massacres. These scenes will get you drunk on the possibilities of what's to come.They also feel like Jung's way of acknowledging his forebears while one-upping them. "Kingswha?" "Oldwho?" "Hardcore Whozee?" Never mind those guys, here comes "The Villainess." Sadly, Jung "Action Boys" fails to sustain the breakneck momentum of these early bravura sequences. There's a lot of chutzpah on display throughout the film, evenduringessentially soggy, dialogue-intensive sequences, which are broken up by disorienting flashbacks. But Jung's biggest failingis his inability to make Sook-hee a heroine worth caring about.  Sook-hee, like Min-sik Choi's tragic ass-kicker in "Oldboy," is a living revenge machine. Unlike Choi's Dae-su Oh, Sook-hee is almost immediately recruited to work with a group of other skillful female black opsgunpeople. Forced to become a team player right out of the gate, Sook-hee soon loses her individuality. She struggles to remain feral in training sequences that require her to beat up catty colleagues in order toassert her dominance. But once Sook-hee acesa crash course inhyper-disciplined homicide, she is given a new identity and booted out into an uncaring world. At this point, her most humanizing relationship is with her young daughter Eun-hye Yeon-woo Kim. Which is a shame, because Sook-hee andEun-hye's bond predates Sook-hee'spost-training identity as a superficiallydomesticated undercover murderer. Nevertheless,Sook-hee persists in starting a new life, one that's so emotionally stillborn that it's impossible to care about "The Villainess" until it gets back into action mode during its concluding  minutes. Until then, the film's real focus is perpetually revealed through a series ofstructurally impressive but emotionally unmoving episodes arranged in a nesting doll structure. The main thing you have to know aboutSook-hee is that shestruggles to lose herselfduring suitablyportentous-lookingperformances at a local theater company. No, wait, that's not important. What really matters is that Sook-hee falls in love with next-door neighbor Hyun-soo Jung Joon Sung. No, no the really big thing is that Hyun-soois spying on Sook-hee on behalf of hersuper-shadowy, death-dealingemployers. No, hang on, that's not as serious as the knowledge that there was a trauma in Sook-hee's past that has motivated her since we met her mid-stabathonduring the film's opener. Sook-hee's actions don'teventuallybecome more meaningful because the film gives us nothing in the way of context, save a bunch of guardedconversations with or about her impenetrable character. Jung invests so much time developing the shape of his narrative that it becomes easy to confuse his film'ssuperficial complexity withmelodramatic substance. The plot twists that ferry us from one action scene to the next are simply not interesting enough, no matter how cleverly arranged they are. It becomes hard to care about Sook-heeby the time she gets back tocrashing through bus windows and slicing up disposable bad guys armed only with a sturdy pair of heels and a big katana. Viewers of "The Villainess" pony up for Jung's consistentlyexcitingaction scenes, but these sequences, while impressive, aren't enough to make Jung's breakthrough film more than a promising dry run for what will hopefully be a sturdier follow-up. Until then: just wait for the best bits of "The Villainess" to show up in short-attention-span-friendly YouTubesuper-cuts. There's a lot ofcool knives on displayhere, but the people doing the stabbingdon't really matter. 