The Armor of Light begins with footage from a  anti-abortion rally, in which one of the protests leaders, a minister, is seen cradling a preserved human fetus in his hands. This gentleman, the Reverend Robert Schenck, happens to be the protagonist of the documentary. Ill put my cards on the table, for what its worth. Im what some would call pro-choice and I am neither moved nor engaged by tactics such as the one used by Reverend Schenck. Regardless, one supposes that the footage does establish what some would call Schencks pro-life credentials, and once the movie has done so, Schenck narrates an event that would change his life: the  murder, or assassination if you please, of Dr. Bernard Slepian, an abortion provider who was killed by an anti-abortion activist. I was more than shocked, I was stunned, Schenck says, going on to say that he just couldnt believe that anyone pro-life would actually take a life. I was nave, he concludes. Gee, you think? Regardless of where one stands on the issue, it seems relatively clear that the rhetoric used by those from Schencks camp is frequently on the heated-to-the-point-of-inflammatory side. Theres not much hate-the-sin-love-the-sinner going on in this debate. In any event, Schenck was genuinely moved, because he took a hard, detailed look at the gun culture within the wide-ranging evangelical community in the United States, and decided to  well, to question it. Schenck, as this documentary from co-directors  Abigail Disney and  Kathleen Hughes demonstrates, is not exactly an anti-gun crusader. Rather, he seeks to imbue a spirit of mindfulness to his flock. To just think about the potential contradictions within deeming oneself both pro-life and pro-gun. For merely suggesting such a thing, he gets a lot of pushback. Intersecting Schencks story is that of Lucia McBeth, a flight attendant whose son was shot to death by  Michael Dunn after a service-station conflict over music coming from the vehicle in which victim Jordan Davis sat. Davis was African-American, Dunn white. Dunn invoked Floridas stand your ground laws, which had recently served George Zimmerman so well, to justify his actions. So yes: this movie pokes its camera eye into about a dozen distinct forms of controversy. And yet The Armor of Light is a calm, measured, and very visually attractive film each and every shot thats not from archival or found footage is meticulously composed and executed' Disney amp' Hughes do NOT do B-roll, one that holds conclusions at arms length. While drawing compelling portraits of Schenck, McBeth, and McBeths family lawyer John Phillips, the movie also provides some peculiar glimpses into the aforementioned gun culture. Archival footage shows NRA head Wayne LaPierre proclaiming, The only way to stop a bad guy with a gun is with a good guy with a gun. Later in the film, at a quiet meeting with fellow evangelicals which opens with a prayer, even, an Operation Rescue member earnestly parrots those exact words to Schenck. Its like something out of They Live, or Orwell. The same fellow also utters the catchphrase An armed society is a polite society, and goes on to explain that two people who meet on the street who both know that the other is armed are not going to shoot each other, which begs the question of why they were going to shoot each other in the first place. In other scenes, several church-going folk discuss a fantasy scenario in which a child molester is luring a kid into a van but is stopped by a gun-toting parishioner. When has this ever happened, really? Theres a tendency among some folks to try and bolster LaPierres position by sending skeptics a blog post from Controversial Times, or some other highly reliable website, about the dozen or so times that a good guy with a gun HAS stopped a bad guy with a gun. I dont know what the actuarial tables make of this, given that the number of times this hasnt happened is well over a dozen but  oh, good grief.   Disney and Hughes' film, for all its evenhandedness of tone, is clearly in Schenck and particularly McBaths corner' it regards the conviction of Dunn as a triumph for common sense and justice. For all that, the films calmness, and its roundabout approach to narrative somewhat unavoidable given the structure Disney amp' Hughes choose, which is to tell a lot of the story more or less as it happens rather than in retrospect diffuse some of its power. The overwhelming and slightly dispiriting for this viewer, at least note that The Armor Of Light ends on is that the road ahead for Schenck is a long one, and the folks he wants to persuade along that road are not easily swayed from their reflexive disdain of a nanny state. 