David Farr takes the giddy, heady days of early motherhood the frustration and isolation, the exhaustion and confusion and mines them for creepy, paranoid thrills in The Ones Below. Farr, a screenwriter  Hanna, TVs The Night Manager whos also making his feature directing debut, truly seems to get the potent mix of hormones and emotions at work during this magical time. Sure, youre proud and elated. Youve made a person. Youre blessed. But especially if its your first andor only child you dont really know what youre doing in a situation where everything is at stake. Are you losing your mind? Or do you just need a nap? Farr roams around smartly and confidently in that gray area. His film begins optimistically enough, though, as married, attractive Londoners Kate  Clmence Posy and Justin  Stephen Campbell Moore visit the doctor for an ultrasound of their impending bundle of joy. Everything looks great and theyre all smiles driving home, but the tinkly, slightly eerie scores suggests something is afoot early on. Soon enough, new neighbors have moved into the flat beneath theirs one that was left empty following the death of its occupant, along with a garden thats abandoned and overgrown. But the fastidious, fashionably dressed Theresa  Laura Birn and Jon  David Morrissey spruce things up quickly with their candy-colored dcor and meticulous floral design. And what are the odds? Theresa happens to be pregnant, too, just a few weeks further along than Kate. And so these privileged blondes, both expectant moms, form what seems like a natural friendship although Theresa is always a little too eager, too complimentary, too familiar. Birn, a sleek, Finnish beauty, is simultaneously sexy and foreboding. Farr expertly puts us on edge through the simplest conversations, with attempts at small talk that always feel slightly awkward. This is before he even formally introduces Jon, who has the exact opposite temperament from his wifes. Whereas shes sunny and vibrant, hes brusque and humorless. His uptight insistence on removing shoes and lining them up side-by-side outside the front door tells you everything you need to know about him. The Ones Below is full of observant, idiosyncratic details like this throughout. Their difference in demeanor becomes especially clear when Kate and Justin invite them upstairs for a dinner party. Theresa politely declines an offer of wine, insisting she wouldnt dream of drinking when shes expecting, only to guzzle down several glasses of chardonnay when Jon isnt looking. And, well  things go significantly downhill from there. Thats all well say. Cut to a few months later. Kate has given birth to her baby, a little boy named Billy. And heres where things start getting really tense. Billy is healthy and Kate and Justin are doing fine, if a little bleary-eyed, at first. But odd occurrences and disturbing noises begin piling up, steadily driving them to a frenzy: the blast of a car alarm night after night, or an overflowing bathtub, or muffled sounds on the baby monitor. A neighborly offer of a glass of lemonade or a cat slinking underfoot suddenly seem sinister, and Kate and Justins airy flat makes them feel claustrophobic.   An allusion to mental illness in Kates family and the conspicuous strain that exists between her and her mother Tessa  Deborah Findlay magnify the mystery. The fresh-faced Posy, however, offers Kate as a pragmatist from the start. Shes down-to-Earth and relatable, which makes her eventual panic not just understandable but justifiable. Its a slow burn, but even as events turn more than a tad preposterous with twists that seem not just predictable but inevitable, Farr keeps a handle on the tension and tone, which keeps us hooked. Comparisons to  Roman Polanski particularly to  Rosemarys Baby might seem obvious given the subject matter and setting. But Farrs film stands on its own: lean, brisk and stylistically precise, and mercilessly free of gratuitous jump scares and gore. And at under  minutes, its just the perfect length for a new mom to watch to pass the time while her baby is taking an afternoon nap. 