The number of important, enduring s and early s songs that a group of studio musicians known as The Wrecking Crew brought to life is staggering. The Mamas and the Papas California Dreamin.  Nancy Sinatras These Boots Are Made for Walkin and her dads Strangers in the Night. The Byrds Mr. Tambourine Man. The entire, groundbreaking Beach Boys album Pet Sounds and pretty much everything recorded through  Phil Spectors famous Wall of Sound, including The Righteous Brothers Youve Lost That Lovin Feeling. Director  Denny Tedesco has lined up all these rock and pop tunes and many more, along with years worth of interviews with the unsung musicians and the far more famous acts they supported, in his documentary The Wrecking Crew. While a lot of filmmakers say their works are labors of love, Tedescos truly is in every sense of the term. His late father, Tommy Tedesco, was a hugely talented and versatile guitarist who was at the center of a core group of about  session musicians who became known as The Wrecking Crew for their ragged style. The younger Tedescos film is an effort to honor his father which hes done with great affection and respect as well as his dads colleagues, who were crucial at a particular place and time in musical history. They worked anonymously but seamlessly together in a variety of genres, taking notes on the page, jazzing them up and making them fly in ways the artists and songwriters themselves couldnt have imagined. But Tedesco also labored to get the rights to this vast library of hits, delaying the films release for seven years. It premiered at the South by Southwest film festival in  and is just now seeing the light of day theatrically. The eerie upshot of that is, we get to see interviews with the late  Dick Clark in all his richly polished glory prior to his  stroke as well as a lively and lucid  Glen Campbell, who was a Wrecking Crew guitarist before launching a solo career and who was diagnosed with Alzheimers disease in . In a reflection of the range these players had, other celebrity interviews include  Herb Alpert, Cher and Mickey Dolenz of The Monkees. The Wrecking Crew is mostly about uplift, however almost monotonously so. Following in the footsteps of the superior music documentaries  Standing in the Shadows of Motown ,  Muscle Shoals and  Feet From Stardom both , it aims to enlighten and inspire by shining a spotlight on the folks who toiled in the background for too long. Tedesco depicts Los Angeles in the early s as a mecca for musicians a place where work was plentiful and siren song of surf culture was irresistible. And the players themselves have a bounty of anecdotes to share, which Tedesco mixes with a vast library of archival photos. But there are so many stories and so many people and so much music, its almost too much for Tedesco who also narrates to get his arms around. The result is brisk and entertaining but also scattered and repetitive. Only toward the end does he touch on how these folks felt about famous acts taking credit for their work time and time again. They all look back with fond recollections, which can get a little dull. And only through one player the prolific drummer  Hal Blaine does he explore the economic downfall some of them experienced once musical tastes changed and the work dried up. But Tedesco also unearths further evidence of Brian Wilsons genius as members of The Wrecking Crew recall him walking them through each of their parts individually during the recording of Pet Sounds. Itll make you listen to Good Vibrations, a song youve heard a million times, with fresh ears. And he devotes a substantial amount of time to groups main bass player, Carol Kaye. She was a rare woman in this realm playing studio gigs all day and night at a time when women were expected to stay home and raise a family. Interviews here reveal her to be as cool and sharp as ever and as it turns out, shes the one who played the famous bass line on the  Mission: Impossible television theme. Maybe shell get her own documentary next. 