Veteran French director  Anne Fontaine approaches a spiritually and emotionally complex real-life slice of history with deftness and understated drama in TheInnocents. The cool, observational style that has marked much of Fontaines work, including the lush biopic  Coco Before Chanel and the deliciously tawdry  Adore, serves her well here. Working from a sensitive script by  Sabrina B. Karine and  Alice Vial, Fontaine lets the inherent horror of the films situation speak for itself, which makes it that much more startling. And she draws finely nuanced performances from her ensemble cast, especially stars  Lou de Lage,  Agata Buzek and the great  Agata Kulesza  Ida. TheInnocents begins at the end of World War II in Poland, December . Serene, austere Benedictine nuns sing sweetly in the quiet stillness of morning until a piercing scream echoes through the stone hallways, sending a chill. Turns out, its coming from an extremely pregnant, young nun whos on the verge of giving birth and shes not alone. One of the more daring sisters dashes into town to fetch a doctor, trekking through forest trails and war-torn streets, and the dusting of snow that accumulates on the hem of her habit leaves a vivid impression of cold and isolation. The no-nonsense Mathilde Beaulieu of the French Red Cross de Lage initially is reluctant to leave her busy post to help. But once she arrives at the convent, shes shocked to discover that at least a half-dozen young nuns also are in advanced stages of pregnancy. As the Reverend Mother Kulesza and her right-hand woman Maria Buzek matter-of-factly explain it, Soviet soldiers invaded the convent and repeatedly raped the women as the war was ending. They can hide their bulging bellies under their robes, but only for so long. Reverend Mother views these pregnancies as a source of great shame and seems far less concerned about the psychological trauma these women must be experiencing. As she grudgingly agrees to let Mathilde assist with the deliveries and after care, she insists the births must remain a secret, and promises to arrange adoptive homes for all the newborns immediately. Fontaine explores this fraught situation from every angle and with great humanity. Mathilde, for starters, is a stoic non-believer. She is all business the voice of reason in a place of sacred mystery. And while she initially accepts the sisters blessings and prayers politely, she eventually opens herself up to the powerful role faith plays in their lives. When de Lage smiles or cries even slightly, its a revelation, and the vaguely romantic relationship that develops between her and a smart, self-deprecating fellow physician a heartbreaking  Vincent Macaigne allows her a few stolen moments of much-needed joy.   But the nuns themselves also get the opportunity to evolve in unexpected ways. They may all look alike at the start with their uniformly plain appearance, but each reacts to the prospect of being a mother differently especially given the devastating way they became pregnant. Most were virgins before they were violated' others had known men before coming to the convent and speak longingly of the freedom of their previous lives. One nun giggles nervously during her examination while another recoils in fear and shame. Finding their faith shaken, however, is a nearly universal concern: If it happened, that means He wanted it, one nun wonders aloud to Mathilde. What does He want me to do with it? TheInnocents is the rare film that examines the nature of religious belief in a non-judgmental way' actually, its more about strong, brave women protecting each other and doing what they must to survive. The starkness of the setting and the spare, fluid camerawork from cinematographer  Caroline Champetier make the drama of their decisions pop that much more in ways that are both shocking and enlightening. And although the ending wraps things up in a quick and tidy way thats jarring, given everything that preceded it, TheInnocents still represents a welcome change: a war movie by women, about women. 