Director  Joshua Oppenheimers  The Act of Killing, a most unusual treatment of mass murder and the people who commit it, galvanized both documentary audiences and filmmakers in . Oppenheimer, a writer, activist, and conceptual artist, invited the perpetrators of ostensibly-anti-Communist, state-sponsored killings in s Indonesia to reenact their deeds as heroic movie scenes. The results, I myself noted at the time, were bracingly ghastly, and also disturbing in their deeper revelations.  Oppenheimers new film, The Look of Silence, is a deliberate companion piece to Killing, and it too is strong and upsetting. Its conceptual framework isnt nearly as idiosyncratic as the previous films, and that could be to its advantage. Instead of working with multiple criminal subjects, Oppenheimer settles in with the family of one victim. Silence tells the story of this mans death which, because of its circumstances, gained a certain symbolic weight with certain Indonesians over time through the eyes of his younger brother, Adi, an optometrist in his early s who was born after the killings and was seen by his now very-aged parents as, if not a replacement for their older child, a kind of proxy for him. The movie opens with Adi watching a television monitor, looking at footage in which an older man gleefully recounts a killing. I ripped him open' his intestines spilled out. A series of titles tells the viewer that over one million supposed Communists were murdered during the period of Indonesian turmoil, and that the perpetrators still hold power throughout the country. Oppenheimer and his cameras follow Adi as he travels around rural areas of his country, giving eye exams and prescribing glasses for several of his interview subjects, who confess their doings with often shocking nonchalance. Adi, who explains early on that When I meet older people, I like to hear about the past, is an often cheerful, pragmatic fellow who enjoys a light-hearted relationship with his own daughter' when he watches the footage of confessed killers or listens in person to one-time thugs, his face takes on a cast of intense scrutiny, the look of silence to which the films title refers. In a sense, he teaches the viewer on the other side of the screen how to process these stories.  And what appalling stories they are. Drinking your victims blood is important, otherwise youll go crazy, one old man tells Adi. A one-time military man brags about trying to solicit a cruise to the U.S.A. after completing his killing labors' hes earned such a thing, he says, because We did this because America taught us to hate Communists. In the school room where one of Adis children is taught, a teacher explains to his charges that the Communists had to go because they were cruel and would mutilate the faces of military Generals who wouldnt cooperate with them, which is an interesting little fabrication. So the communists werent cruel? the child asks Adi later on. Its a tough question for many reasons, one being that in many, many cases, the Communists werent even Communists.    Almost as maddening and frightening as this material is the attitude adopted by some interviewees' The wound has healed, grumbles someone who doesnt want the murders brought up' the irony of someone who had a hand in perpetrating the wound pronouncing it healed is an exasperating one. Then theres the ex-military man who starts lecturing Adi: Do the relatives of the victims want this to start happening again? he rumbles, quaking a bit. The real danger that Adi placed himself in is underscored by the films end credits: Oppenheimers co-director is called  Anonymous, and there are over thirty more acknowledgements of an Anonymous as the credits scroll down.  The  documentary  The Corporation made much of the U.S. legal gymnastics that grant corporations a kind of personhood, along with attendant rights, and concluded that if a corporation were a person, it would be a malevolent sociopath. The portrait of Indonesia that emerges from The Act of Killing and The Look Of Silence places the national character in a sort of ongoing psychotic fugue state. Post-Holocaust discourse frequently used the phrase  Never Again as a slogan, specifically referring to persecution of the Jews but also denoting a prohibition against barbarism' the events under consideration in these films are dispiriting reminders that human progress in this area has been meager at best. 