The Glass Castle is at odds with itself. Maybe that contradiction is by design. Maybe its inevitable, given the emotionally complicated terrain it treads. But the result is a film that never quite clicks tonally and doesnt do justice to its harrowing central story. The film is based on the bestselling memoir of the same name by former New York gossip columnist  Jeannette Walls. In it, she recalls a childhood of poverty, uncertainty and neglect. As one of four children of an abusive, alcoholic father and a selfish artist mother, Jeannette learned to fend for herself and care for her sisters and brother at a young age, even as they were moved from town to town, kept out of school and often left hungry for days. Director and co-writer Destin Daniel Crettons film alternates between Jeannettes youth and teenage years and her adulthood in , when shed seemingly found stability with a job as a New York magazine writer and an engagement to an ambitious financial advisor. But the back-and-forth structure never really works: It feels episodic rather than building momentum toward its intended moments of truth. The Glass Castle is actually more compelling in its flashbacks, when Jeannette a mature and soulful  Ella Anderson is better fleshed-out as the familys feisty, fearless voice of reason. And thats surprising given that  Brie Larson plays her as an adult. Larson reunites here with Cretton, whose  indie gem  Short Term  was one of the movies that put her on the map. But the depiction of Jeannette in her mid-s renders her strangely inert' shes a passenger in her own story, often functioning at the whim of others. As in Short Term , which takes place at a foster-care center for at-risk teens, The Glass Castle doesnt shy away from the horrors its young characters endure. And Crettons matter-of-fact approach once again serves him well. Working from a script he co-wrote with  Andrew Lanham, he wisely doesnt overplay the violence and squalor Jeannette and her siblings suffered. Still, the portrayal of patriarch Rex Walls remains troubling.  Woody Harrelson can be terrifying in the role, especially in the characters dangerous instincts and drunken rages. He seems to recognize that this man was a monster. But The Glass Castle also wants us to think hes exciting in his unorthodox parenting approach and regard his antics as amusing. The same is true of  Naomi Watts performance as Rexs wife, Rose Mary, a flighty and playful woman who once got so ensconced in her painting that she failed to notice Jeannette severely burning herself while cooking hot dogs on the stove. Its the struggle that gives it its beauty, Rose Mary says to Jeannette in explaining why she was drawn to an unusually shaped tree in the desert during one of the familys many stops and spelling out the films central theme, Again, maybe the Walls parents were all those things and so many more to Jeannette and her siblings played as adults by  Sarah Snook,  Josh Caras and  Brigette Lundy-Paine. But the result is a film that feels surprisingly safe as a whole, despite its individually startling scenes.   Most of these take place in Welch, West Virginia, the impoverished hometown Rex returns to reluctantly only once the family is totally broke. This is where he finally plans to build the glass castle of the storys title: A magnificent, solar-powered structure hes been designing for years. Clearly, thats never going to happen. But significant events do take place there, including the quietly powerful moment when Jeannette asks him to stop drinking by lantern light, because the family cant afford electricity in their run-down shack. Any sobriety Rex achieves doesnt last long, though, as we see from the  sections. He continues to get drunk and embarrass Jeannette, especially as she tries to project a polished faade alongside her stable and supportive yet slightly boring fianc, played by  Max Greenfield. Larson eventually allows the cracks to show and lets the pent-up emotion out in a couple of stirring outbursts that are the highlights of a performance thats otherwise understated to a fault. Certainly forgiveness and redemption are admirable and possible after such a difficult childhood. Theyre also worthy and inspiring cinematic themes. ButThe GlassCastle ultimately ties up all the ugliness with a tidy bow that doesnt quite fit.   