"You're My Dream" is the name ofthe song that concludes Danish writerdirector Nicolas Winding Refn's dream-like midnight movie" Only God Forgives." That song title could just as easily bea question posed by Jesse  Elle Fanning, aneophyte fashion model and thelead protagonist of "TheNeonDemon," Refn's latest provocation. Like "Only God Forgives," "TheNeonDemon" follows a protagonist on the verge of being consumed by their dream. Jesse is the latest victim of her own hype, a vain but shy young woman who becomes convinced that she is alternatively as dangerous and as timid as others make her feel.Jesse never stops being a blank slate since she imagines she's more in control of her dark, un-romanticfairy tale narrative than she thinks. Unfortunately,whileRefn " Drive," " Bronson" isconcerned with loss of control, and does accordinglypresent secondary characters as Jesse's funhouse mirror reflections, heloses his grip on viewersthe fartherhemoves away fromJesse and her capricious desires. Jesse has been told that she is a natural talent. She receives this praise cautiously, but earnestly. She wants to believe that she's good enough to be signed by a top fashion agency at the ripe age of . So she forges her parents' signature onaconsentform, andallows herself to be pulled into a world ruled by haughty models,elusive designers, and mercurial photographers. Jesse never stops relying on other people, but her relationship with amateur photographer Dean  Karl Glusman becomes rocky once she realizesthat she is what everybody else dreams of being. "TheNeonDemon" is, in that sense, about Jesse's struggle to transformfrom a timid beauty who dreams of the open night sky to a self-fashioned predator, one who recklessly burns bridges because she knows she is wanted. Jesse's narrativeis always half-realistic and half-dream-like in that it follows a character who is caught between two mindsets: accept the power and attention she receives as a sign of her own value or live in a seedyworld where everybody tries to exploit each other. Even Dean, the most sympathetic character in the film, isa few career moves away from becoming as conceited as the acclaimed fashion designer  Alessandro Nivolawho callously puts down Jesse's peers for being just "fine," not amazing. Everybody wants something from Jesse, making it impossible for her to have a relationship that doesn't end tragically. As "TheNeonDemon" goes on,Jesse struggles to assert herself, making it a necessity for Dean, and concerned make-up artist Ruby  Jena Malone to become more than just foils. Everybody in the filmultimately reflects Jesse's inner struggle, including Nivola's cartoonishly conceited artist, and Keanu Reeves's seedy motel owner. But the more control these characters take from Jesse, the less interesting they become. We see many variations on the same qualities voracious desperation and insatiable hunger expressedin Jesse's friends. But they're expressed through such overheated set pieces that it eventually becomes too easy toemotionally disengage from each successive, bloody dream-like sequence.   Having said that, "TheNeonDemon" features several momentsof startling beauty. Some memorable dialogue scenes and several dream sequencesare the moments in which Refn most obviously wears his influenceson his sleeves  Stanley Kubrick and David Lynch came to mind most often, but it's probably not coincidental that Jesse seems most lost in those scenes. Refn's captivation with the contours and expressions on Fanning's face comes to fruition in two runway sequences that are set in a futuristic night club that looks vaguely like a cross between" Tron" and " Under the Skin." Streaks of white light,mysterious pyramids, red strobes and a terrifyinginky black background rule in these scenes. Severalexchanges between Jesse and her fellow models are also potent despite Refn's pulpy, strained dialogue. Fanning makes Refn's otherwise passive victimmonster chimera look like a real person whohappens to be an unreal projection.The scenes in which Jesse is the most submissive work best because they feel more direct, and perhaps more lived-in. "TheNeon Demon" only works when Refn finds the right middle ground between obliquely hinting at and explicitly spelling out what his movie's about. He constantly plumbs his id, and sometimes the results simply aren'tinteresting. As a result, "TheNeonDemon" is often productively brash, even if it is ultimately more preposterous than it is satisfying. 