The Sense of AnEnding is a decent, take-your-mom movie or take your grandma, if youre a lot younger than I am. Its got a strong, esteemed British cast  Jim Broadbent,  Charlotte Rampling,  Harriet Walter,  Michelle Dockery,  Emily Mortimer. Its based on a Man Booker Prize-winning novel by  Julian Barnes. And its about returning to a dramatic event from decades earlier in the hopes of finding closure. And indeed, the screening I attended was packed with older filmgoers a woefully underserved audience beyond the occasional " The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel movie and the like to the extent that the woman sitting three seats down from me kept answering her phone when it rang and having loud conversations. Not to sound derisive, but theres definitely a target audience here. What theyll get will be mildly satisfying: a film thats well-acted but tastefully restrained to a fault, with gentle humor about aging and a central mystery that isnt all that engaging. Maybe it works better on the page. Barnes  novel, at just  pages, has been acclaimed for its elegance, precision and for the gripping nature of its unreliable narration. Director  Ritesh Batras film, based on a script by  Nick Payne, jumps back and forth in time as the pieces of a previously unexamined life snap into place. Characters and bits of dialogue from one period intriguingly appear in the other to signify the fluid nature of memory. But when you stand back and consider the truth Jim Broadbents character is chasing, its hard to understand why it matters now, after all this time. Broadbent stars as Tony Webster, the divorced owner of what has to be the tiniest and most specific shop in all of London: a narrow storefront where he fixes and sells classic Leica cameras. Batra efficiently establishes the quiet, daily rhythms of his isolated existence: the tidy home where he brews a coffee pot for one in the morning, the park bench where he eats lunch by himself in the afternoon. This is a man whos clearly very particular about everything but Broadbent, great as always, imbues the characters loneliness with an awkward sweetness. He still has a cordial relationship with his ex-wife, Margaret Harriet Walter, and the scenes in which the two banter with a warm familiarity are the films finest. Why did you leave me? Tony asks Margaret at one point' she rolls her eyes at him in response. She is the voice of reason the one connected to the outside world, a force Tony clearly still needs in his life. And the two share a strong bond with their daughter, Michelle Dockerys matter-of-fact Susie, whos extremely pregnant and on the verge of having her first child on her own.   The arrival of a certified letter disrupts his routine. It turns out the mother of his first love, Veronica, a vivacious young woman he met in college, has died. She has willed him an item that Veronica, whom he hasnt seen in over  years, now refuses to give him. As Tony tries to track it down, he shares with Margaret the story of this young romance, as well the friendship with a fellow classmate that came to a tragic end. The Sense of AnEnding glides back and forth between a series of conversations between the exes, each of which ends with Margaret growing exasperated with Tony, and the events from the early s themselves, starring  Billy Howle and  Freya Mavor as the young Tony and Veronica. Working with cinematographer  Christopher Ross, Batra shoots these flashback scenes warmly in contrast to the crisp cloudiness of contemporary London. Theres a smoky, faded quality that suggests the haziness of memory. Mortimer is vibrant in just a few scenes as Veronicas perky, playful mother, while  Joe Alwyn Billy Lynns Long Halftime Walk leaves a melancholy impression as Adrian, the mutual friend who deeply affected Tony and Veronicas blossoming relationship. But the most powerful scene of all comes courtesy of Rampling, which should come as no surprise to anyone whos familiar with the veteran actress work. Along those lines, The Sense of AnEnding surely will call to mind s   Years, which deservedly earned Rampling an Academy Award nomination for Best Actress. That film also followed the domestic destruction caused by a letter with news from the past. Here, in one exquisitely sad and tense moment with Broadbent at a caf, Rampling provides a brief glimpse into what all the fuss is about.   