It sounds impossible too melodramatic, too crazy but its true. Actor and writer  Kumail Nanjiani fell in love with his then-girlfriend, now-wife,  Emily V. Gordon, when she was in a coma. It also sounds impossible that such a story would make for a crowd-pleasing comedy, but thats exactly what The Big Sick is, and so much more.   Director  Michael Showalters film defies categorization. You could call it a romantic comedy and that would be accurate, because there are indeed elements of romance and comedy. It mines clashes across cultures and generations for laughs that are specific to Nanjianis experience but also resonate universally. The Big Sick also functions as an astutely insightful exploration of how we live now with the Pakistan-born comic, starring as himself, enduring racism thats both casual and pointed. But the pivotal plot point in The Big Sick is a potentially deadly illness hence the title which provides not only drama and catharsis but also dark humor, and it allows the films characters to evolve in ways that feel substantial and real.   Thats a lot of different kinds of movies at once, and Showalter working from a screenplay by Nanjiani and his wife, Gordon gets his arms around all of it with dazzling dexterity. On the heels of his sweetly heartbreaking  dramedy  Hello, My Name Is Doris, Showalter once again makes tough tonal shifts with great grace. Again and again, he finds that laughter-through-tears sweet spot, often in the unlikeliest of places.   But it all starts with the script. Nanjiani and Gordon have dared to make themselves vulnerable here, allowing us an intimate glimpse into a traumatic and frightening time in their lives. They imbue moments both large and small with such an abiding honesty, though, that The Big Sick never feels like shameless navel-gazing. The events that ultimately brought the two together are extreme, but the depiction of them always rings true.   And Nanjianis front-and-center presence is a crucial component in the films emotional connection. Even if you had no idea "The Big Sick" was based on his real-life courtship, Nanjiani exudes an authenticity and a directness that are hugely appealing. Hes part of the ensemble on HBOs Silicon Valley and hes had a number of supporting film roles in recent years, including a particularly, um, memorable appearance as a massage therapist in last summers  Mike and Dave Need Wedding Dates. But this will make him a star, and it should.   At the start of The Big Sick, though, the on-screen Kumail is struggling to make ends meet, working as an Uber driver by day and a stand-up comic by night. He sleeps on an air mattress in a Chicago apartment thats a slight notch above college squalor with his needy roommate, Chris  Kurt Braunohler. One night at the comedy club, he connects with the smart and beautiful Emily  Zoe Kazan, whod inadvertently heckled him during his set. Kazan and Nanjiani have crackling chemistry from the start, a sweet and easy banter that only grows more enjoyable the more time they spend together.   With a deadpan playfulness, they repeatedly insist theyre not dating, even though its clear theyre falling for each other. Emily, a grad student with plans to become a therapist, is no giggly rom-com heroine seeking approval: I love it when men test me on my taste, she zings when Kumail quizzes her on her favorite movies. Its a testament to Kazans instincts and presence that while her character is lying in a hospital bed for much of the films midsection, you still feel her influence.   Before that happens, though, we also see what Kumails life is like with his family: devout Muslims who insist on arranging a marriage for him. His older brother, Naveed  Adeel Akhtar, already has a wife and seems content. His parents Bollywood legend  Anupam Kher and theater veteran  Zenobia Shroff, both lovely just want him to be happy as long as he carries on their cultural traditions. Caught between Pakistani and American identities, between Islam and agnosticism, Kumail is unsure of who he is but he knows he cant tell his family about the white woman whos become so important to him.   And then, Emily gets sick a sudden and unexplainable illness that forces doctors to place her in a medically-induced coma. This allows us to meet her parents the nerdy, down-to-Earth Terry  Ray Romano and the feisty, no-nonsense Beth  Holly Hunter and it places Kumail in the uncomfortable position of getting to know them under dire circumstances. Again, this might not sound like comedy gold. But the way Nanjiani, Romano and Hunter navigate their characters daily highs and lows and dance around each other is simultaneously pitch perfect and consistently surprising. Romano is great in an unusual dramatic role, but Hunter is just a fierce force of nature, finding both the anger and the pathos in this frustrated, frightened mom.   The details in the hospital scenes make them feel particularly vivid: the colorful quilt from Emilys childhood bedroom that her mother brings from North Carolina to cover her during her comatose state, or the yacht rock hits piping through tinny speakers in the bleak, cramped waiting room. The situation would feel like hell no matter where you are, but such touches make the characters anxiety seem endless.   Which brings us to the only slight drawback: the running time. The Big Sick is a  Judd Apatow production, and like a number of movies hes been involved with over the years  Funny People, This Is , it goes on a tad longer than it should. Some tightening, especially toward the end, might have made a great film truly excellent.   But Apatow also has a knack for spotting up-and-coming talent and using his considerable influence to help foster it on the biggest stage and under the brightest lights. Hes done this with  Lena Dunham Girls and  Amy Schumer  Trainwreck, and hes done it again with Nanjiani. Were the ones, though, who truly benefit. 