Theres something really soothing about a  Nancy Meyers movie. Everything looks so good' both polished and cozy. Its not just the real estate porn, which had its most blatant manifestation in the Hamptons beach house featured in Meyers ageism-juggling  rom-com Somethings Gotta Give. Its also the furnishings, like the rotating tie rack in the bedroom of the brownstone owned by  Robert De Niros retired businessman in her latest, "The Intern." Its how all the surfaces gleam: The Intern was shot at locations mostly within walking distance of where I actually live, and while it is a very blessed part of Brooklyn, its windows are not normally quite as uniformly shiny as those of the buildings seen here.  And often this soothing quality serves as a distraction from how inane and uncomfortable a movie such as Somethings Gotta Give can be. But heres the thing: The Intern, while having its share of silly moments, is the most genuinely enjoyable and likable movie that Meyers a longtime writer and producer before taking up directing has put her name to since, oh, I dont know, s  Irreconcilable Differences. De Niro has the title role here, as he did in  Taxi Driver and  Raging Bull and even  The King of Comedy. His characters name is Ben Whittaker, and hes a retired, well-off widower in Brooklyn whos bored with the relative inactivity of his current, pleasant mode of living. So he applies for a position in a Senior Intern Program at an e-commerce concern called About The Fit, and winds up reporting to its founder, Jules, an exemplary, for Meyers,  st  Century entrepreneur type' not too far beneath her sunny exterior she IS played by  Anne Hathaway, after all is a highly driven and possibly blinkered go-getter.  De Niros character here is one that he pretty much never played during what many consider his acting heyday: a decent, straightforward, non-neurotic regular guy whos gotten somewhere good in life. And in this movie, he plays it rather well. Theres something slightly Woody Allenesque about his opening scene, in which he constructs a job-application video. His role calls for him to do a certain amount of mugging as he interacts with younger colleagues and learns about the Weird Things These Kids Today Do With Their Relationships And The Internet and such. Thankfully, the movie doesnt dwell on senior-citizen bemusement with the Digital Age all too much' one of the points of De Niros character is that hes alert and competent and wants to be of service. He has a hard time being of service to Jules, whose relentless focus makes her immediately distrustful of anyone who has an insight as to how she conceives and runs her business. And the movie is rather good at the details of that business, and the way that Jules vision for it defines its practical particulars.  But Ben manages to get into Jules good graces partly via patriarchal stealth, as when he confronts Jules driver after seeing him take a few nips out of a paper bag right before the soon-to-be-ex-employee is supposed to take her to a meeting in Manhattan. Bens internship happens to coincide with a challenging period in the growth of Jules company' Jules aide-de-camp Cameron a very understated  Andrew Rannells brings her the unusual news that the companys investors, while delighted with its success, would like to bring an outside CEO to the company. Jules dutifully interviews prospects even as shes dizzied by the idea that she could be effectively ousted from her own creation. In the meantime, her home life she has a too-milquetoasty-to-be-a-bro-dad husband  Anders Holm and a predictably delightful and adorable young daughter JoJo Kushner is taking the standard can-a-career-woman-have-it-all hits. And at least one hit thats not so standard, or maybe I should say, not so easy to stand.    Through all of this Ben maintains a careful, empathetic watch early in their relationship, Jules pinpoints her discomfort with him as arising because hes too observant and when he steps in to offer help, he does so in a discreetly chivalrous way that actually runs counter to any here comes daddy to save the day expectations. Ben, as it happens, genuinely admires Jules looks up to her, you might say and when he does bring his experience as a businessman to bear on Jules own enterprise, its in the spirit of sharing knowledge rather than that of correction. When push comes to shove, Ben offers Jules the assurance that the thing to do is be tough and go after what you want.  The adages of The Intern are delivered in a comedy package that, for the most part, is sane, sweet, and smart, and a lot of the time, actually funny. A budding romance between Ben and the companys in-house masseuse  Rene Russo is fodder for two groan-inducing visual gags. But a silly set piece in which Ben enlists some of the younger goofballs of About The Fit on a housebreaking mission, replete with latter-day Oceans Eleven references, is actually a tolerable bit of rompage. And everyone in the cast, including Hathaway, who, for the record, I have never not liked, is extremely appealing. What have you done with my husband? my wife asked me the other night when I came home and told her Id had a genuinely good time watching a Nancy Meyers movie. What could I say? Youre never too old to keep an open mind. 