Sometimes you have to wonder how certain movies get made. I have no special knowledge of the production of The Legend of Tarzan. But I have to imagine that the movie spent such a long time in the development process that no one involved found a moment to look outside the Hollywood bubble and surmise that maybe right now in America isnt the most opportune time to reboot a pop culture myth involving a quasi-superhero white guy who has dominion over the animals and certain peoples of Africa.  The upper-case r in a circle that appears below the name  Tarzan in the opening credits of this new movie, directed by Harry Potter stalwart  David Yates from a script by  Craig Brewer of  Hustle and Flow and  Black Snake Moan renown, and no, Im not kidding and  Adam Cozad no idea, may have something to do with the movies raison detre when one has a trademark, one must exploit it. But the wisdom of propagating any kind of white savior narrative during the charged era of Black Lives Matter surely must have seemed dubious, no?  Actually, yes, because throughout its brisk hour-and-forty-five minute running time, The Legend of Tarzan does things to reassure those viewers that care that the movie is indeed aware of its problematics. The movie begins with some texts evoking the colonization of what was in the late  th  century called the Belgian Congo, and of a nefarious scheme involving mercenaries, slave labor, and pilfered diamonds, all engineered by an envoy named Leon Rom. This fellow is played by  Christoph Waltz and he carries with him a rosary that sometimes doubles as a short-distance noose, which isnt a heavy-handed piece of symbolism at all, no way. Anyway, hes the bad guy, and hes first seen entering the deepest, foggiest, most spear-ridden caverns of the African jungle to bargain with fierce chief Mbonga  Djimon Hounsou, who will give Rom all the diamonds he needs to finance his army  on delivery of his most hated enemy: Tarzan.  The movie finds Tarzan up in England, all civilized and respectable and Lord Greystoke-like, residing in his manor with wife Jane, something of a London celebrity and man of influence. The ruse of an invitation to check out Belgians progress in the Congo is proffered to Tarzan this is part of Roms trap and Tarzan, I mean Lord Greystoke, I mean John Clayton, is disinclined to accept. Hes moved, though, by the entreaties of an African-American diplomatinvestigative agent, George Washington Williams  Samuel L. Jackson, who wants to tag along with, um, Tarzan, and get solid evidence of illegal slave trading. Thats travel companion one. Once the Big T gets back to the manor, we discover that he and Jane have a pretty  st -century type relationship. She, played by  Margot Robbie, insists that shes coming along too. He protests The last thing you need is more stress" I told you about that  st  century biz but shes not having it. The gang of three hits the sea, and once on the Continent makes a meaningful detour to visit the tribe that Jane knew when her parents were missionaries. And there is much singing and celebration in a manner not unlike that scene in Hatari! where they make  Elsa Martinelli the elephant queen or whatever she was. Almost sixty years and aint a damn thing changed in Hollywood.    Is that entirely true? As the presence of Jackson here somewhat attests, The Legend of Tarzan does make some attempts to address contemporary racial sensibilitiessensitivities. Almost every time something potentially dicey rears its head in the narrative, the movie practically pauses to excuse itself and say, I know what youre thinking, but it isnt what you think, just wait, and then, what do you know, Jacksons character will chime in with an ironic apercu to remind everyone that were all friends here, and its the guy with the German accent and the rosary whos the real problem.  Still, once Hans Landa, I mean Leon Rom, does show up to spoil the happy homecoming of Tarzan and Jane, laying ruin to the tribal village and kidnapping Jane, the movie does provide an object lesson on what is and is not, apparently, acceptable in the violent-entertainment scheme of things. A peaceful, noble African tribal leader can take a bullet to the chest, but once shes been abducted, Jane can only have the threat of rape dangled in front of her and the audience. Waltzs performance as the villain is terribly familiar, but its kind of funny that hes kitted out as if he wants the title role in a remake of  Fitzcarraldo. The way the semiotics play out should be somewhat queasy-making even if you arent paying close attention. Even after the movie establishes that Tarzan is a uniter, not a divider, the compromise he strikes with his most fearsome African nemesis is only accomplished after were treated to the spectacle of ultra-buff  Alexander Skarsgrd putting the hurt on about a dozen men of color. And if youre asking right about now why I have to bring politics, racial or otherwise, into it, one answer I have is that the movie did it first, by deigning to create a revisionist history of the Belgian Congo.  Strangely enough, though, if you can put these considerations aside or, I suppose, if you never cared about such considerations in the first place The Legend of Tarzan is a pretty good action-adventure movie. Its narrative is refreshingly free of bloat, folding the Tarzan origin story into a series of relatively pain-free flashbacks that actually dovetail credibly into its contemporary scenario. The lead players, with the exception of the too-familiar Waltz, give appealing performances, and the action scenes are pretty tight. I am amused that somebody took the  Blazing Saddles joke about stampeding cattle through the Vatican as a sort of inspiration for a climactic set piece, but I also have to admit the conceit works. For what its worth, The Legend of Tarzan is several unpretentious cuts above the pompous, leaden Greystoke of over thirty years ago. Im ignoring the  Tarzan and the Lost City because nobody even saw it, let alone talked about it. 