The  th Life of LouisDrax is a twisty, Hitchcockian thriller mixed with trippy moments of magical realism. And if that doesnt sound on paper like it would work, well, it does. And it doesnt. French horror director  Alexandre Aja  High Tension,  The Hills Have Eyes tries to juggle a jumble of images and tonal shifts here as he did in his  film  Horns, which starred  Daniel Radcliffe as a young man suspected of murder who literally sprouts horns from his forehead as he accepts his new, devilish role. Radcliffes co-star in that movie,  Max Minghella, wrote the script for The th Life of LouisDrax based on the novel by  Liz Jensen. Maybe some of the more fantastical ideas worked better in the book' seeing them brought to life on screen, its hard not to admire their ambition, even if they dont always coalesce into a cohesive, satisfying film. The th Life of LouisDrax relies heavily, at least in the introductory scene setting, on voiceover from  Aiden Longworth as the title character. The smart, strange child describes himself in sardonically perky fashion as the amazing, accident-prone kid as we witness his litany of near-death experiences. A chandelier fell on him in his crib when he was an infant. There was an unfortunate incident involving a fork and an electrical socket. But the worst of all the one that may finally do him in occurred on his ninth birthday as he was enjoying a picnic with his mother, Natalie  Sarah Gadon, and father, Peter  Aaron Paul. Enjoying isnt exactly the right word, though, because as we learn from increasingly informative flashbacks, Natalie and Peter are in the midst of a tense separation. The th Life of LouisDrax tries to keep us on our toes through multiple perspectives and unreliable narrators, constantly challenging us to determine whats real and whats imagined. One thing that is for sure: Louis went over a steep cliff that day and is now lying in a coma. The setting the craggy hills of Marin County, overlooking an eerily cloud-enshrouded San Francisco is one of many elements that call to mind Hitchcocks oeuvre. Another is the intriguingly icy presence of Gadon, a blonde femme fatale clad in classic party dresses and capri pants. While Natalie manages to convince everyone around her that shes a damsel in distress, theres clearly much more going on beneath her pristine surface. As the all-business police  Detective Dalton  Molly Parker leads the investigation into the cause of Louis fall, she and her team also are searching for Peter, the volatile, hard-drinking dad who disappeared that day. But they must delve into the past to get a complete picture and thats where famed neurologist Dr. Allan Pascal comes in. A mostly fully clothed  Jamie Dornan plays Pascal with understated intelligence and concern, which eventually give way to some questionable personal choices that cloud his judgment. As he uses unorthodox measures to reach Louis, he gets help from the boys therapist a warmly funny  Oliver Platt, whom we see sparring with the impudent Louis in flashback. Louis is the kind of precocious, hyper-verbal kid you only see in movies' his darkly amusing observations contrasted with Longworths sweet demeanor keep the character from being completely insufferable.   See? Told you there was a lot going on here. And we havent even gotten to the sea monster yet. Yes, there is a sea monster, which might just be the imaginary friend to whom the comatose Louis confesses all his secrets and fears. Or he might represent something deeper the revelation of which provides the film with an unexpected amount of poignancy. The th Life of LouisDrax goes to some daring and dreamlike places, full of lushly colorful wonder and dark, chilling danger, with  Patrick Watsons tinkly score simultaneously suggesting whimsy and menace. Either youll be willing to go with some of its wilder visual conceits or you wont. I was, for the most part. But the emotional truth that grounds the film, particularly in the moments between Paul and Longworth as father and son, offset Ajas iffy flights of fancy. 