Nick Cassavetes hasnt exactly made his name with laugh riots. The son of  John Cassavetes, hes probably best known for directing such weepy melodramas as the massively successful " The Notebook"  as well as "My Sisters Keeper" , in which adorable  Abigail Breslin seeks emancipation from her parents so she no longer has to help keep her leukemia-stricken sister alive. Bring tissues. So its surprising that "The Other Woman" is indeed as funny as it is at least, in sporadic spurts.  Cameron Diaz and  Leslie Mann enjoy some sparky chemistry as the mistress and wife who discover theyre both in love with the same man. Trouble is, Cassavetes working from a script by Melissa K. Stack veers wildly between cautionary tale, revenge comedy, scatological raunchfest and female empowerment drama. Its trio of wronged women banding together and seeking redemption frequently calls to mind " The First Wives Club," which was similarly uneven in its zingy one-liners and contrived plot points. But "The Other Woman" is reminiscent of another movie which also happened to come out in : the made-for-TV true story "Frequent Flyer," starring Jack Wagner as a romantic rogue of an airline pilot whos married to three different women in three different cities. Please dont ask me why I remember this. And the cad in question in "The Other Woman," played by Danish hunk  Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, happens to look distractingly like a younger version of Wagner with his blonde-haired, blue-eyed features and slick, cocky demeanor. In theory, the joy of watching this kind of movie comes from seeing such a smooth operator squirm as his schemes are revealed and destroyed. And for a while, Diaz and Mann make for a likable odd couple as co-conspirators two women who couldnt be more different clashing and connecting as they unite for a common cause. Their doubts and decisions come from recognizable places. But then theres a third woman, played by Sports Illustrated swimsuit supermodel  Kate Upton, whose introduction unfortunately throws the whole movie into wacky, slapstick territory. Youd think Diazs character, tough-as-nails Manhattan attorney Carly Whitten, wouldnt abide by that kind of nonsense. As Carlys tough-love assistant,  Nicki Minaj is a scene-stealer in her first on-screen role' her performance is one of the films few consistent pleasures. A serial and unsatisfied dater, Carly thinks shes finally found the man of her dreams in Coster-Waldaus Mark King, who presents himself as a single and successful Internet entrepreneur. But when Mark bails at the last minute on plans to meet Carlys much-married father  Don Johnson over drinks, Carly becomes suspicious. She shows up unannounced in hot pants, no less at his rambling, Cape Cod-style Connecticut home with plans to seduce him. Guess who answers the door? Manns Kate, the stay-at-home wife Carly never knew Mark had.   While the leggy, blonde Carly is all monochromatic minimalism, the petite, redheaded Kate is downright Stepfordian in her Lilly Pulitzer-style pastel prints. Veteran costume designer Patricia Field of " Sex and the City" and " The Devil Wears Prada" fame makes these characters wardrobes pop distinctively. Kate is also Carlys opposite in terms of personality: Shes sweetly ditzy, a little needy and constantly chattering. Perhaps the contrast is a bit obvious but when the two women are on screen together at least for the first half of the film it works. Mann is constantly on her verge of a breakdown, a character trait shes exhibited previously in her husband,  Judd Apatows films particularly "This Is ." But here, shes honed the way she rides that edge and finds the confusion and humanity in Kates state. She may be annoying as hell but at least she recognizes shes annoying as hell, which makes her strangely lovable. Kate stalks Carly and insists that they must be friends because the same man has deceived and betrayed them both. No one else could possibly sympathize with the turmoil theyre going through. Strangely, this makes sense. They bond as women tend to bond in movies like this over shoes and tequila shots and at times its hard to tell whether Cassavetes intends these sequences which he often depicts in montage form as an homage to a genre or a parody of it. The use of  Cyndi Laupers "Girls Just Want to Have Fun" as Kate and Carly find down-and-dirty ways to get even with Mark is so clichd and on the nose, its discombobulating. But the fun doesnt stop there. As they sneak around behind Marks back and plot against him, they discover that hes involved with another other woman: Uptons twentysomething sexpot, whom they quickly clue in and befriend. Her name is Amber of course and she drives a Volkswagen Jetta of course. Thats about the extent of the characterization the script or perhaps the editing process affords her. Amber is a series of seismic curves, stuffed inside a teeny-weeny white bikini. Indeed, when we and Carly and Kate first see her, shes jogging along the Hamptons sand in the aforementioned swimwear in slow motion, naturally with shades of  Bo Derek in "." Hopefully that sequence didnt require a lot of takes, because it looks like it must have been painful for the buxom Upton.   The model-turned-actress certainly has a likable enough screen presence but shes just not up for the challenge of performing alongside such seasoned comedians. It makes you wonder what an actress like  Alice Eve might have done with the role. At least shes not alone in the eye candy department, though. Kate just happens to have a brother named Phil  Taylor Kinney of TVs "Chicago Fire" whos too good to be true: Hes a handsome, smart, gentlemanly contractor who just happens to be single as if hes been waiting for Diazs character his whole life. Such plot contrivances abound from this point, along with not one but two instances of characters, um, graphically relieving themselves at inopportune moments. The joke isnt funny the first time, and this kind of gross-out strain of comedy clangs uncomfortably with the feel-good message "The Other Woman" ostensibly is trying to convey. Any semblance of intelligent humor or insight into female aging that may have existed gets tossed out the window of Carlys high-rise office by the end, with Mark behaving like a petulant child throwing a temper tantrum. Desperation does not suit Coster-Waldau. While "The Other Woman" raises some thoughtful questions about independence, identity and the importance of sisterhood, ultimately it would rather poop on them and then throw them through a window in hopes of the getting the big laugh. 