A fair to large number of the contemporary Brazilian films that make their way to United States distribution deal with social inequities on a large and harrowing scale. The frantic, violent   City of God is a pertinent example, as are the hyper drug-busting Elite Squad pictures. Writerdirector Anna Muyleart examines class and income difference in a much, much quieter register in The Second Mother, a domestic comedy-drama that starts off from a fairly pat premise but builds strength over the course of its careful, empathetic, and crafty unpeeling of its characters.  Regina Cal plays Val, a spirited if frumpy middle-aged woman whos worked for a well-off Sao Paolo family for over a decade. In that time shes become practically a second mom to now-teen Fabinho Michel Joelsas. Shes practically a co-conspirator with the kid. After his parents, haute-bohemians Barbara the imperious bossy parent, played by  Karine Teles and Carlos the laid-back failed artiste inheritor of a family fortune, played by  Loureno Mutarelli upbraid Fabinho for having a stash of pot theyre avid smokers themselves of course, Val assists him in retrieving it from the trash. Its all cozy enough in its way, especially as Barbara and Carlos, the better to assuage their liberal guilt, make something of a show of treating Val as family. This practice is put to the test when a figure from Vals past calls. Val, as it happens, left the Northern part of Brazil for Sao Paolo with something behind her: a child of her own, Jssica, whom she entrusted to relatives when she went to work for something like a living. Jssica the great Camila Mrdila is now a teen, and about to apply for university in Sao Paolo. Shes seeing her mother for the first time in a long time, and the resourceful, smart, appealing girl is put off right away by her mothers insistence that she move into her employers house with her. Given that Jssica is attractive, resourceful, smart, and aspires to a form of independence, one can expect all manner of sparks to fly. And they do.  The tensions between servant and master are evident before Jssica arrives, revealed in Barbaras barely-held in, snobbish reaction to a coffee set Val presumes to give the family as a gift. Once Jssica arrives, she at first knocks out her mom The Internet...You can do that? Val exclaims on seeing her daughters web savvy in action then confuses her with her dedicated studying: The whole day with a book, its easy to go crazy. Jssicas insistence on taking the family at their word about her and her moms equality in their eyes is a test of Barbaras already clearly-limited patience. At the same time, Carlos sees in Jssica a liveliness and adventurous spirit thats now dead in him, and this leads him to make some extreme pronouncements that animate some of the most awkwardly funny scenes in the film. As the movie goes on, Jssica gets increasingly fed up with her mothers willingness to be patronized and humiliated by her employers. As various pushes come to shove, Jssicas compelled to share a secret with her mom that brings them closer even as it illustrates what some might see as an unfortunate pattern. This isnt groundbreaking stuff, but its consistently well-observed and engaging. The cast is terrific, and Muyleart has an understated assurance in her handling of film language. The depiction of a door that separates a large houses kitchen from its dining room is especially astute throughout. As are Muylearts frequent uses of long, unbroken takes. By the end of The Second Mother, one feels enough at home with the characters to leave the theater with a healthy concern with where theyre going to end up next. This isnt the kind of film one associates with potential sequels, but I wouldnt mind seeing Muyleart follow up with Val and Jssica some time .