The EagleHuntress, a sky-high documentary salute to girl power, is at its best when it soars with a purity of purpose while propelled by a humbly determined -year-old Mongolian girl on the brink of breaking through an ancient gender divide. By her side are her two faithful companions, a majestic goldeneagle chick that she is about transform into a mighty pursuer of prey and her supportive nomadic herder father Nurgaiv, a two-time champion hunter himself who proudly oversees his daughters own training so she can become the first female to compete in the GoldenEagleFestival. Add a dizzying panoramic setting in a remote locale atop the Altai Mountains with wide-open vistas and frigid temperatures that can drop to  below zero and this true-life tale is prepped for emotional takeoff. Aisholpan, a straight-A student and tomboy who decorates her braids with flowers and bows when she isnt whupping male classmates at checkers and wrestling, is as good as it gets as a courageous heroine to root for. With her rosy face, dimpled smile and calm grace under pressure, she is a standout both among her peers at her school, where she spends five days a week away from her family and on the big screen. There is a subtle though palpable sense of Aisholpan being a chosen one, a natural-born talent. You can see why New York-based director  Otto Bell was moved to shoot his first full-length doc after being riveted by the BBC News photos of this young lass casting the massive eagleperched on her arm into the heavens. The most compelling sequence that the filmmaker captures, one of many shot in precarious outdoor conditions, isnt even the contest that Aisholpan eventually enters. Instead, it is when she and her dad climb upon craggy unstable terrain so she can stealthily snatch her youngeaglefrom a nest on a cliff while a watchful mama bird hovers overhead. Yes, predatory hunting, especially for sport, might not be for all sensibilities or ages despite the film earning a rare " G"-rating. The movie opens with an an older male hunter in the act of freeing his eagleafter seven years of service and slitting the throat of a sheep as one last reward. Later, a pair of animals gets into a vicious claw-and-tooth struggle for survival but only the merest hint of carnage is shown. Nature might be occasionally caught in the raw but the straight-forward narrative and simple subtitled dialogue could have been easily plucked from the pages of a childrens bedtime fable. Dad is a booster. Mom is OK with her oldest child not being interested in domestic tasks that are traditionally tended to by women. Even the Kazakh eagle-hunting elders, who we hear as they condescendingly describe girls as being too fragile and not brave enough to participate, are hardly villains despite their old-school notions. Does it matter that the trajectory of The EagleHuntress feels scripted at times and the actions we witness are sometimes staged or even manipulated? Somewhat. One result is that there is very little build-up of tension involving Aisholpans pursuit of her dream as she faces down  experienced fellow competitors. But Bell does compensate by presenting an even greater challenge as a finale, when Aisholpan and hereagleattempt to entrap a fox in the wild for the first time while she and her father ride their horses across hazardous iced-over bodies of water and waist-deep snow. Bravo to veteran nature cinematographer  Simon Niblett for devising ways to safely shoot such spectacular action from a self-made drone and a crane to an  eagle cam" that employs a dogs harness in such risky environs. In fact, the atmospheric locale is as much an engaging character as Aisholpan herself. A testament to the film's ability to enthrall comes in the form of several well-known outside participants who wanted to lend their support after viewing footage. They include  Morgan Spurlock of  Super Size Me fame, who provided financing and equipment while offering to recruit actress  Daisy Ridley lightsaber-wielding Rey in the current  Star Wars trilogy as a narrator. And hot pop songstress Sia wrote and performs the uplifting anthem Angel by the Wings with its You can do anything refrain over the closing credits. Unlike such movies as National Velvet and  Yentl, at least Aisholpan doesnt have to assume a masculine guise to reach her goal. In that regard, she is more in league with  Whale Rider, but with bountiful family encouragement. In fact, she doesnt have to deny her identity at all. This is why my favorite moment is when she puts vivid lavender polish on her nails before embarking on the long all-day journey on horseback to the festival. Now that is my kind of war paint.   