In his best performances,  Lou Diamond Phillips conveys a low-simmering anger just below the surface. His winning smile conceals contempt that his eyes give away. As early rock-and-roller Ritchie Valens in  La Bamba , the role that propelled him to brief stardom but an enduring career, he channels this inner resentment into an aggressive performance of Lieber and Stollers  Framed. I knew I was a victimof someone's evil planWhen a stool-pigeon walked in and says, 'That's your man!'" he snarls while banging out nasty bar chords on a cheap guitar as a barroom brawl breaks out. I was framedFramed, I was blamed. Phillips latest turn in The Night Stalker has him playing Richard Ramirez long after the serial killers mid-s reign of terror where he crept into suburban homes and raped and killed the inhabitants, often leaving behind pentagrams drawn in blood or lipstick. Playing a once-imposing figure now declawed by cancer and confined to San Quentins death row, Phillips turns his signature hostility on himself by banging his head on his cell door until blood runs down his face in the movies opening scene. The Night Stalker is coming to us on Lifetime on Sunday June  at  p.m. , and will no doubt capitalize on the current appetite for true crime drummed up by the success of The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story. While The Night Stalkers budget doesnt afford it the slickness of American Crime Story, the movie still strives for a multi-layered approach to its criminal history during its  minute runtime.  Bellamy Young ABCs  Scandal, plays Kit, a lawyer sent to San Quentin to find out if Ramirez murdered some Japanese vacationers at a hotel he used to work at during his younger days in El Paso, before he became Californias very real boogieman. She represents a man facing lethal injection for the crimes with only a few days left to get a stay-of-execution. While this plot device is historical fiction, it does have some basis in fact. In , DNA testing tied Ramirez to the previously unsolved  rape and murder of nine-year-old Mei Leung in San Francisco. Ramirez is known to have committed  murders, and suspected of several more. Ramirez died from B-cell lymphoma in . In the film, as Kit attempts to delve deeper into Ramirezs twisted psyche, she has to confront what fascinates her about the lithesome figure. Writerdirector  Megan Griffiths The Off Hours,  Lucky Them goes the Silence of the Lambs route here, but takes a detour through  Tightrope , the psychological thriller with  Clint Eastwood as a detective who discovers he shares some of the same kinks with the killer hes stalking. When Ramirez and Kit arent verbally sparring, their pasts are told through intertwining flashbacks dripping with sweat and despair.    Phillips, with that ability to radiate anger, is not just convincing but scary-as-hell as Ramirez even though he spends most of The Night Stalker chained to a desk and coughing up a lung. If anything, this can be too much of a good thing however, as Phillips overwhelms Young in their exchanges even more than he should. When Phillips rages about embracing evil and gold being "the metal of Christianity," Young is too often shown staring blankly in return, making me appreciate what  Jodie Foster brought to her confrontations with  Anthony Hopkins in "Silence of the Lambs."  In the flashback sequences,  Chelle Sherrill as a teenage Kit reveals the secrets that her older self is keeping, but Ramirez already knows. While Andrew Ruiz and  Benjamin Barrett are both solid as a younger Ramirez, youre still thankful when Phillips reestablishes his presence through voiceover narration. Its Phillips' brooding intensity that draws you into the film, and will have you locking your back windows when it's over. Its hard not to see La Bamba and The Night Stalker as bookends to Phillips career. Both Valens and Ramirez were Los Angeles County Chicanos who went by Anglicized names. Ricardo Valenzuela became Ritchie Valens because thats what a Latino had to do to make it big in show biz back in the whitebread 's. Ricardo Leyva Muoz Ramrez went by Richard, and was even called Ritchie by his friends. In both films, Phillips plays outcasts in Los Angeles suburban sprawl who achieve their own kind of stardom. In La Bamba, the same high school kids who didnt even notice Valens earlier in the movie, clamor for his autograph after seeing him on American Bandstand. With his long hair and professed Santanism, Ramirez takes on the trappings of a rock star of a later era, even mesmerizing his own flock of prison house groupies who mob the San Quentin waiting area for their moment with him.   Most come once to see what its like to be so close to evil, Ramirez tells Kit with visible disgust. Theyre hobbyists. Valens died when he was barely  in the same  plane crash that also took the lives of Buddy Holly and the Big Bopper, a tragedy that caps off La Bamba with scenes of San Fernando High School kids crying their eyes out and  Esai Morales running up a hill yelling, Ritchie! A quarter century later, Ramirez terrorized that same San Fernando Valley where Valens hailed from. Ramirez was originally known as The Valley Intruder before he killed in San Francisco and was re-christened the Night Stalker by the muckrakers at the Los Angeles Herald-Examiner. Valens died tragically. Ramirezs death came as a relief. By playing both men, Phillips brings his career to a full circle, drawn in blood. 