By now youve probably read a number of scathing reviews of The Mummy, Universals inaugural entry in a possibly grievously ill-advised Dark Universe franchise, wherein the legendary studio intends to reboot its most Famous Monsters of Filmland. Perhaps Im becoming jaded in my old age, but I was more amused than appalled.   Dont get me wrong. The Mummy, directed if thats what you want to call it' I honestly think the better term here is ostensibly overseen on behalf of the studio executives by  Alex Kurtzman from a script by  David Koepp,  Christopher McQuarrie, and  Dylan Kussman, has plenty to get irritated about. I got sand in my synapses during an early scene in which  Tom Cruise, as a looter named Nick Morton oh, Mort, I get it now, and his sidekick, played by  Jake Johnson, casually slaughter a bunch of Iraqi insurgents trying to track down a mysterious treasure. Oh, sure, filmmakers, by all means use a tragic and unnecessary war thats still yielding horrific consequences for the world as the backdrop for your stupid horror movie plot machinations, no problem here.   And, of course, theres the movies very old-school sexism. "The Mummy" has two female characters: One is corrupt albeit not unattractive ancient Egyptian royal Ahmanet, who, once freed from her tomb in the present day, is the incarnation of all evil and stuff. She is played by  Sofia Boutella, whose filmography testifies that shes accustomed to being ill-used in motion pictures. The other is faux-archeologistgenuine anti-evil secret agent Jenny  Annabelle Wallis whos mainly around to be rescued by Nick, and whose surface venality suggests that his business card describes him as a lovable rogue.   So yes, should one choose to take offense, one certainly may. But I have to be honest speaking of venality, I found something almost admirable about the films cheek. Its amazingly relentless in its naked borrowing from other, better horror and sci-fi movies that I was able to keep occupied making a checklist of the movies referenced. At its opening, remnants of a past civilization are discovered while workmen are tunneling underground for a new subway route. Thats from Quatermass and the Pit, aka Five Million Miles to Earth. As many other reviewers have noted, once Jake Johnsons character buys in and is reborn as a wisecracking undead sidekick warning Nick about how hes been cursed by incarnation-of-evil Ahmanet, its American Werewolf in London time, albeit with PG--rated special effects rather than the side of ketchup-dipped corned beef that fell from  Griffin Dunnes face in the earlier movie. What else? A woman whose kiss drains the life force out of those who receive it, from the wacky space-vampire movie Lifeforce? Check. A brain-draining insect in the ear from Star Trek : The Wrath of Khan? Check. Spavined slapstick undead assaulters out of  Evil Dead? Check. Underwater fights with the undead out of  Lucio Fulcis Zombie? Check. These too are toned down considerably from the source material. Someone saying Plans? with the precise intonation Sir  Ralph Richardson used in  Tales from the Crypt? Also check. Dont even get me started on the, um, appropriation of a famous line from the Universal monster movie  Bride of Frankenstein. But thats life, and that movie literally IS Universals property.   There have been a lot of crocodile tears already shed about the fact that The Mighty Tom Cruise has allowed himself to be used in such dreck, and also that  Russell Crowe has been compelled to continue to sink into a form of self-parody by appearing as the head of Jennys anti-evil agency, a character named Dr. Henry Jekyll, and yeah, its the same guy. Or some iteration of the same guy. As it happens, Dr. Jekyll was never one of the Universal Studios monsters, but the character IS in the public domain, so I guess the corporate overlords of the Dark Universe figured what the you-know-what.      Anyway, I cannot feel too aggrieved for either star. As  Richard Harris and  Richard Burton found out for themselves many years before Crowe came along, there comes a time in the career of every loose-cannon macho actor where the any-port-in-a-financial-year-storm approach to career management is all for the best. As for Cruise, he is known for his try-anything-once sense of cinematic adventure, and he does like his franchises. The Morton character is admittedly more of a callow nothingburger than any hes played. And given how the movie ends Im a little disappointed that he wasnt named Larry Talbot. But who knows, maybe hell be obliged to change it for the next installment. Which I am looking forward to, out of nothing but base curiosity.   