One of the toughest challenges for a filmmaker is to take a story to which everyone knows the ending or at least ought to know the ending and retell it in a way that puts the outcome in doubt again.  Steven Spielberg accomplishes this in this years fact-based Cold War tale  Bridge of Spies, and now Mexican director  Patricia Riggen does something not dissimilar with a fact-based story of more recent vintage.  The  is a technically impressive simulation of the mine collapse and rescue in Chile in , a cataclysmic event that saw  miners trapped underground for a stupefying-seeming  days. Their plight became an international cause during that period, and their incredibly improbable rescue was a whole world is watching moment on a par with the first moon landing. The movie throws together an international cast that may on first glance strike the movie-savvy viewer as improbable as well: while the English-language production features  Antonio Banderas and  Lou Diamond Phillips, two actors with obvious Latino bonafides in several departments, in key leading roles, it also has French actor  Juliette Binoche and Irish actor  Gabriel Byrne in prominent parts, both playing Chileans. Its a testament to director Riggens skill with actors that she makes the ensemble a seamless one. Unless your objections to casting against conventional type are violent ones, there shouldnt be a problem A slight problem comes up at the movies opening, as the chief characters are introduced in a party scene. One is an elderly miner whos retiring' another is an experienced fellow whos asking his buddy and foreman for an extra shift on a day hes supposed to have off' another is a younger miner whos about to become a father and whos looking into getting out of the mining biz as a result. All three of these cases, of course, add to the what incredible irony quotient when a chunk of rock two times the mass of the Empire State Building trap them almost , feet underground, with only three days worth of food and water rations in the refuge area where the miners roost.  Its in the aftermath of the catastrophe that the movie ramps up the suspense and claustrophobia. The story toggles between the mine and the surface world. Below, the miners assess their situation and determine the measure of its true desperation. Above, miners families including Binoches Maria, the guilt-ridden sister of a drunkard miner, one pregnant wife, and the competing wife and mistress of one sheepishly rakish worker demand answers and action. The Chilean government, in the person of a green and earnest minister played by  Rodrigo Santoro  Che,  steps in' Gabriel Byrnes tough mining engineer thinks the miners are all but dead ducks, and his interactions with Santoros character do a good job with explaining just why the chances for a rescue were initially in the vicinity of one percent. The ensuing action shows how the odds increased. There are a lot of characterizations, and a few character arcs, that the movie takes on, and Riggen doesnt mind having to do sketches a more thorough movie would have been, well a mini-series. But its a real accomplishment that she keeps the action coherent throughout, and she shows admirable daring at times. The impending starvation of the miners inspires a hallucination dinner scene thats pretty audacious, and genuinely funny. Anchoring the underground action are the performances of Banderas and Phillips' the former is reliably charismatic as usual, while Phillips provides a bunch of reminders of what a subtle and effective actor he can be. This unabashedly crowd-pleasing movie gets to its uplifting but also somewhat disquieting conclusion and coda which, as is the custom these days, introduces the audience to the real-life miners with its integrity intact. As such, its a pretty pleasant surprise, and in more than one way. 