The sins of the father are visited upon his son in  The Song, a faith-based parable that draws from the Bible as much as  it does from every perils-of-showbiz clich in the book.  The religious spin comes from the suggestion that God somehow frowns  upon the pursuit of your dream if it involves coveting fame and fortuneeven though you are simply bringing joy to the world by sharing the  talents that presumably were bestowed upon you by the Lord in the first  place. By that definition,  competing on a reality talent competition is akin to a one-way ticket to  hellfire and damnation. That may explain why we havent heard from  those last couple American Idol winners lately. I  am sure filmmaker  Richard Ramsey, making his directing feature debut,  is going for a theme more profound than thatputting family first and  not selling out on your principles and that sort of thing. But his film  doesnt quite earn that type of deeper consideration, despite its belief  in a higher power. In fact, The  Song can often be quite the grand ol soap opry, as unsurprising as a  Tweet update that a celebrity is entering rehab. But the Mumford amp'  Sons-style neo-folk tunes are sort of catchy, the message is more  earnest than outright preachy, the scenery autumnally appropriatemuch  of the filming was done in rural Kentuckyand the main actors are  easy enough on the eyes that you can sometimes overlook their vapid  emotional outbursts. Still, no one  would blame you if you skipped this cinematic sermon and instead caught  up with the new season of TVs  Nashville, whose racy backstage antics  regularly threaten to rival those found in Sodom and Gomorrah.  Inspired  by The Song of Solomon, a celebration of romantic intimacy found in the  Old Testament, the film opens with this scripture quote: I have seen  everything done under the sun. All of it is meaningless, a chasing after  wind. There is a prologue from the s that shows country icon David  King King David was Solomons father, dont you know being tempted by  alcohol and his flirty backup singer. The result? A broken marriage, a  second wife, a lot of guilt and a baby son named Jed, who will inherit  his musical abilities while growing up in the shadow of his famous pop. The  adult Jed strapping singerguitarist  Alan Powell of the Christian band  Anthem Lights is a gifted performer stuck playing in dive bars. But  his luckand lifechanges after meeting the beauteous and devout  Rose  Ali Faulkner, a flaxen-haired combo of Marcia Brady and Heather  Graham whose resume includes a 'Twilight' movie. His feelings for the  vineyard owners daughter motivate him to write a lovely ditty that not  only wins him her hand but turns out to be his passage to riches and  international acclaim. Soon they are saying their vows in a chapel that  Jed is building on her daddys land to honor their commitment, and a  baby boy arrives in short order.    But  yall know what comes next, right? A pushy manager wants Jed, whose  blue-eyed good looks suggest  Robby Benson on steroids, to go on the road  for months on end with his band to entertain auditoriums filled with  cheering young wenches with lust in their hearts. And wouldnt you know  that his opening act features a raven-locked temptress named Shelby Bale   Caitlin Nicol-Thomas, who exhibits a Kirsten Dunst-ian kittenish  allure. This siren-voiced violinist might as well have Jezebel  stamped somewhere among her countless tattoos, because she is capital-T  trouble wrapped in tight pants and flashing a leering grin from the  instant she appears.  With Jeds  visits home between concert dates growing ever more strainedhomebody  Rose cant join him since she must tend to her sickly fathertheir  passion cools considerably and he soon succumbs to Shelbys charms, not  helped by the fact that they sound great performing together. And so  begins the usual downward spiral into sex, drugs and soft rock n  roll but with picture-postcard shots filling in for such tour stops as  London and Amsterdam.  However,  just so we dont think that we are watching a VH- "Behind the Music"  episode, Ramsey has a narrator recite Bible quotes from The Book of  Solomon now and then that are intended to comment on the action on  screen. At a certain point,  however, I began to treat "The Song" as a kind of guilty pleasure, a not  particularly good movie that nonetheless entertains in spite of itself.  How can you not chuckle when a resentful Rose starts to feign  sleepinesscue big yawnto avoid any bed time with her soon-to-be  wayward husband at least she never says she has a headache. Or when  Jeds facial scruff suddenly turns into a kind of an outward indicator  of how far he has fallen as it grows from Abe Lincoln length to hipster  nirvana to hillbilly moonshiner scary. Besides, laughterintended or notis always good for your soul.  