There  is but one member of the dysfunctional clan at the center of the  ultimately disappointing This Is Where I Leave You who comes anywhere  close to being content in life. That would be the potty-training tyke  who likes to tote his portable throne outdoors and tend to business  while enjoying the Westchester County views. His Zen approach to  pooping trumps anyone elses neurotic whining.  It  might also be the reason that sh  is Night at the Museum franchise  director  Shawn Levys preferred curse word in his first R-rated comedy.   Also possible: The kid is the most mature person on screen Otherwise,  it is gripe, gripe, gripe and snipe, snipe, snipe, all served family  style with a bare minimum of relatability. True, the pleasing presence  of comic pros  Jason Bateman and  Tina Fey, along with It dude of the  moment  Adam Driver and House of Cards  Corey Stoll as a quartet of  disgruntled siblings, goes a long way to mask the failings of a script  that doesnt quite do justice to the novel on which its based.  Also  providing some welcome distraction is the presence of  Jane Fonda, more  radiant than ever at , who is much more at ease with humor  now than in her early s Barefoot in the Park  starlet days. She is quite amusing as a Mom-zilla, who demands that her  children reunite and sit Shiva for seven days following their  not-very-religious Jewish fathers death. Youre all grounded, she  tells her scowling offspring about the ritual that their patriarch  supposedly wanted to be observed. Her  Hillary, a child therapist and rampant over-sharer she  extolls her late husbands sexual prowess to any and all within  earshot, is known for her infamous parenting guide, Cradle and All,  that still has her brood seething over the intimate family secrets she  tattled to the world. Meanwhile, Feys Wendy, an unhappy homemaker and  mom of two including the aforementioned pooper with a work-obsessed  husband, counters her mothers insistence on  keeping tradition with this observation: Mom, you're sitting in the exact same spot we put our Christmas tree. Somehow,  Fonda maintains her dignity even if her characters recent boob job  becomes the object of mockery one or two or three too many times. Other actors arent so lucky. Everyone  gets one big issue to obsess over, although Batemanwhose Judd was  the novels narratorgets a few bonus ones along with being  physically knocked  to the ground at least three times. His perfectionist Manhattan radio  producer has been in a funk ever since discovering that his wife would  rather celebrate her birthday by having sex with his boss, a sexist-pig  shock jock  Dax Shepard, than blow out the candles on her custom-made  cake. No job, no spouse, no homein one fell swoop. And, as bad timing  would have it, no dad, either.  If  anyone comes close to making This Is Where I Leave You tolerable, it  is Bateman. But he has been the best thing about a so-so movie far too  often at this point in his career. And the sudden shift into more  serious matters latter in the movie are beyond even his talents to pull  off.  As  for the rest of the cast, Stoll is resentful eldest brother, Paul, who  stayed close to home and ran a sporting-goods business with their  father. He and wife Annie  Kathryn Hahn are desperate to have a baby,  despite possible infertility problems, and attempt to make one every  chance they get. That Annie used to be Judds squeeze adds an extra  layer to Pauls anger. There  is always a black sheep in these types of films and Driver fills that  role as well as he can as youngest child Phillip, a feckless playboy  with a hot car and a hotter older woman on his arm  Connie Britton of  TVs " Nashville," who is a successful therapist just like Hillary, which  suggests some Oedipal themes are afoot.  Yes,  there are laugh-out-loud one-liners delivered with relish by this crew  but they sound as if a writer and not a real person would actually say  them. Conflicts grow all the more complicatedand increasingly less  interestingonce Judds estranged wife and his ex-boss join in the  so-called fun. As old grudges are aired and former flames materialize,  you can practically predict where it is all heading . That is, save for one doozy of a reveal at the end. Considering  that author  Jonathan Tropper did the film adaptation of his  best-seller, he has no one to blame but himself. For some reason, the  surname of this fractious tribe has been changed from Foxman to Altmanperhaps as an allusion to the cinematic master of such extended  ensemble pieces. If so, This Is Where I Leave You is what probably  would have resulted if  Robert Altman ever had the urge to make a TV  sitcom after losing his sense of nuance. One that would have been  canceled after one season.  There  is such a long tradition in these sorts of family-gathering vehicles,  ranging from s You Cant Take It With You, which won the best  picture Oscar, to last years  August: Osage County,  that it  is one of the more difficult genres to pull off. Good for Levy for  trying something different. But next time he does an adult-aimed movie,  he should also try a little harder.  