At , George Takei is as active in social media as the average teenager. Regardless of whether you follow him on Twitter or friend him on Facebook, he is probably somewhere in your social media feed right now. Someone you know has shared or retweeted something of his, either a humorous comment or an article link or one of those annoying, captioned picture internet memes that sometimes get people in trouble. Takeis ability to become a constant fixture for a younger crowd while maintaining cult status for older generations is one of the topics discussed in director  Jennifer M. Kroots fun and informative To Be Takei. To Be Takei is a conventional documentary, but by no means a bad one. The requisite talking heads footage and media clips are assembled into a good narrative structure by Kroot and editor Bill Weber. The -minute running time moves briskly, and some of the details presented have an unexpected emotional heft. For those who only know Takei as Sulu in the original Star Trek TV series and its movies, To Be Takei offers some startling details about the actor and activist.  The first three or so minutes play like a preview for familiar George Takei details that the film will tackle later.  Howard Stern appears to complain about shooting footage for his announcer Takeis documentary. The USS Enterprise makes a cartoony entrance in the opening credits, beaming the Takei family down to Earth. A commercial for Sony featuring Takei appears on his TV screen, culminating with the ads pitchman uttering his well-known catchphrase, Oh my. And Takei laughs his famous laugh for the first of many times it will be heard in To Be Takei. The name of this movie should be George Takei: Normalcy, states Brad Takei, Georges husband and business partner. They are power-walking down their block, talking and bickering like the old married couple that they are. Kroots camera maintains an intimate, though safe, distance as the duo addresses themselves and us. Their relationship subscribes to the old adage that opposites attract. George is very laid back, and Brad is, according to George, a lot more cautious and pessimistic. Hes a nervous wreck, and he knows it, says George. I asked him why hes with me when I make him sonervous, he continues with a laugh before pointing out how Brads organizational skills are an invaluable contribution to their business relationship. Footage of Brad in action, competently handling the minutiae of his celebrity husbands event-filled days, compliment the more emotional, self-described temper tantrums we occasionally see onscreen. At autograph signing events and Star Trek conventions, Brad keeps the line moving, funneling details to George before he speaks to the next fan.   Any mention of the original " Star Trek" series is bound to be accompanied by an appearance from Captain Kirk himself,  William Shatner. His interview with Kroot, along with footage of Takei roasting Shatner on Comedy Central reveal an antagonism between the two that has apparently lasted throughout three seasons of the TV show, six movies and five decades. Passing a billboard with an ad for Shatners now-defunct S t My Dad Says TV series, Takei points out that Shatners mouth is covered, as well it should be. Though "Star Trek" plays a large role in To Be Takei, Its not the films main focus. While there are interviews with Walter Chekhov Koenig and a silver-haired Nichelle Uhura Nichols, this is less Trek-oriented than one might expect, though it is used as a jumping-off point for several other topics. Treks creator,  Gene Roddenberry, hired Nichols and Takei to show a diversity onscreen that did not exist in . Takeis Sulu, who would eventually become captain of his own ship in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country, made an impression on viewers, especially those of Asian descent. Actors like  John Cho and  Lea Salonga explain how seeing an Asian person onscreen in a positive role influenced them.  To Be Takei doesnt shy away from contradictions in Takeis long life and career. The film highlights Sulu, but it doesnt ignore the more stereotypical characters George Takei was advised to play by his agents after NBC cancelled the original "Star Trek" series. There are cringe-inducing clips of  Jerry Lewis movies and TV cop shows, and Takei appears onscreen to apologize for them. There is also audio of Takeis first appearance on Howard Sterns show, where the now very active gay rights activist denies his homosexuality. Stating that he did it for career purposes, Takei connects his stereotypical acting roles with his days of being publicly closeted. Rejecting both allowed him to present a totally positive and accurate representation of himself in every venue in which he appeared.   To Be Takei also powerfully covers Takeis childhood spent in a Japanese-American internment camp during World War II. Over footage of the camps, George narrates how his and other middle-class Asian immigrant families lost their farms and businesses when FDR issued Executive Order . Takei speaks of wounding his father deeply by blaming him for not standing up to the government. Takei channels his pain and regret into his current role in Allegiance, a musicalmemory play about the camps and the aftereffects they had on future generations. The day I screened this film, my RogerEbert.com colleague and friend Scott Jordan Harris an activist himself penned a piece on a meme George Takei posted to his followers. The meme presented misinformation about the abilities of people who used wheelchairs in an attempt to score laughs. Harris pointed out that the person in the picture didnt deserve mockery because, for starters, some wheelchair-bound people can stand andor walk short distances. After an initial its only a joke-style response, Takei issued a second one apologizing for the meme, citing that he was unaware that not everyone in a wheelchair lacked mobility. He also spoke to the followers who vehemently claimed he didnt have to apologize to anyone, citing that, as an adult, he had the final say on his acts of contrition. Social media apologies are practically a cottage industry nowadays, and they usually ring false as a result of appearing forced. The portrayal of George Takei in To Be Takei made me reconsider my usual cynicism about celebrity mea culpas, at least in his case. Conventional documentary or not, I got something of positive value and insight out of To Be Takei. 