Based on a non-fiction account by one of its subjects, real-life journalist Michael Finkel, the movie True Story spends much of its  minutes trying to figure out just what it is. Murder mystery, journalism expos, courtroom drama, metaphysical inquiry into the secret-sharer nature of certain American Bros, proof that  James Franco and  Jonah Hill can serious-act opposite one another it seems to be going for any one of these at any given moment, and in the end winds up being not a whole lot more than ostentatiously unpleasant and ugly.  Directed by first-time feature filmmaker albeit apparently well-acclaimed British stage director  Rupert Goold, True Story opens with a slow-motion overhead shot of a teddy bear drooping into an open suitcase and landing next to a child whos lying in the suitcase in a fetal position. The child turns out to be one of the alleged victims of Christian Longo Franco who is soon arrested for killing his entire family a wife and three kids. Cut to Hills Finkel, in Africa at work on a major story perhaps his eighth or ninth New York Times Magazine cover gig, he crows to his wife once hes back in the States and hes getting some of the detail work wrong, in a way thats going to bite him in the ass, big time. Exiled from the Times in disgrace, he retreats to his VERY cozy modern cabin in wintry Montana and Very Concerned But Fairly Understanding Academic Wife Jill  Felicity Jones, where he soon hears from an Oregon reporter about a multiple murderer who had been using Finkels identity at the time of his capture in Mexico. That would be Longo. Intrigued, Finkel requests an interview with the accused. The accused accepts. Hes a long-time admirer of Finkels work, it turns out. He makes Finkel an offer that any seasoned journalist would admit stinks to high heaven while at the same time presenting an undeniably potent temptation: If Finkel will keep the story to himself until after the trial, and teach Longo how to write, Longo will give his story exclusively to the writer whose identity he once pilfered.  Its kind of amusing that in a week in which much of the media-engaged real world is howling in outrage that an instance of journalistic malfeasance at Rolling Stone hasnt resulted in a bunch of rolling heads, a movie comes out that tries to make viewers feel bad about the entirely justified firing of a newspaper reporter who really did do the stuff he was accused by his bosses of doing. Man, King Crimson wasnt kidding about that st-Century-Schizoid-Man condition. In any event, as per the movies version of events, Finkels eager acceptance of Longos offer makes him look like an opportunist, and then the movie goes on to make him look like a dumb opportunist. Marveling at the macabre memoir Longo sends him on legal pad, Finkel is spooked by correspondences: Longo makes weird drawings in the margins of his pages, just like Finkel does. Jill raises an eyebrow at this, as one will, but the theme of Human Duality And Darkness doesnt get much play. The screenplay, by Rupert Goold and  David Kajganich, means to plant verbal clues here and there that will pay off big time by the end' suffice it to say that to use the phrase when the penny drops to describe the resultant instances would be to severely overvalue them. Also, the writers seem to have a poor grasp of what a double negative actually is. The film moves at a relatively clipping pace, but also has a weird sense of contingency, as if the filmmakers are filling in the required components of this kind of scenario as they go along. For instance, about an hour into the movie, when all youve seen of Longo is in exchanges between him and Finkel, whos trying desperately to milk a book deal out of his investigation of Longo, youre liable to think, Doesnt this accused killer have a LAWYER? And if so because he probably should why hasnt Finkel had any contact with him? And sure enough, the trial gets underway and yes, Longo DOES have a lawyer. Strangely enough, its about this time in the film that an official investigator, played by bullet-headed, active-jawed toughie Robert John Burke, leans on doughy, confused-looking Finkel better tell what you know, kid, because this Longos trying to pull a fast one on the jury. This might elicit an uh-oh from viewers had the film presented any evidence that Longo might not be guilty, except it doesnt. Finkel thinks he might be innocent, because otherwise all that secret sharer stuff might mean something scary. But really, hes the only one. By the time Longo takes the stand to offer a story so preposterous on its face not to mention probably actuarially unprecedented I thought of  Edward G. Robinsons hole-punching insurance investigator in  Double Indemnity and the fun hed have with this tale, and also how much I would have preferred to be watching Double Indemnity that youre surprised the jurors dont break up laughing at it well, you have to wonder, if this Finkel had almost eight New York Times Magazine cover stories to his name, how hard can big-time journalism really be?    Given that both Hill and Franco conduct themselves reasonably respectably I have to give Franco credit for not going full boogity-boogity Evil Dude with this character, which had to have been a temptation the blame for this mess needs to be laid at the feet of the filmmakers. If this mess is what they ended up with after erring with the best intentions, I feel bad for them. If this is actually the end result they were going for, Id be inclined to use the legal system myself, to file an injunction against them ever getting near a soundstage again. 