Ill say this about the latest Netflix Original Comedy, True Memoirs of an International Assassin: It looks and feels like a real movie. Unlike so many Happy Madison ventures, including Netflix Originals The Ridiculous Six and  The Do-Over, this flick has a director who considered visual composition and pacing, and someone actually wrote a screenplay. The script by  Jeff Morris, which was on the notorious Black List of the best unproduced screenplays, is surprisingly plot-heavy, something also uncommon for other films starring  Kevin James and  Adam Sandler, which typically amount to little more than a series of jokes loosely strung together by an unbelievable plot. Ultimately, True Memoirs of an International Assassin isnt entertaining enough to recommend, but its certainly not the torturous experience of recent James vehicles like  Paul Blart: Mall Cop  or  Pixels, and parts of it actually work. The star of The King of Queens an admitted guilty pleasure in reruns for this writer plays Sam Larson, a cubicle-tethered schlub who has few friends and a horrible boss. He imagines himself the lead of a book hes writing in his spare time called Memoirs of an International Assassin. Getting advice from a bar mate and former soldier named Amos  Ron Rifkin about the ins and outs of covert ops, Sam delivers an entertaining, action-packed adventure novel to his new publisher Kylie  Kelen Coleman, who promises not to change a word. She doesnt. She just adds the word True to the front of the title, sending Sams real life spinning. Now, hes appearing on talk shows and trying to defend a story of international espionage which he made up. Of course, its not long before hes kidnapped and thrust into the middle of a high-danger situation in Venezuela.   The specific details of the international portion of Sams adventure are pretty clever in their complexity. Sam first meets El Toro  Andy Garcia, who wants a crime lord named Masovich  Andrew Howard murdered. Masovich intercepts Sam and orders him to assassinate the President  Kim Coates, who then intercepts Sam and orders him to assassinate El Toro. It's the circle of espionage. Sam, who most people think is the international assassin known as The Ghost, gains a partner in a freedom fighter named Rosa Bolivar  Zulay Henao and  Rob Riggle and  Leonard Earl Howze pop up as a couple of U.S. agents who almost watch SamGhosts current dilemma with skeptical joy. They take wagers as to whether or not hes actually an assassin and eat popcorn while watching surveillance footage of him trying just to survive.   For the most part, True Memoirs of an International Assassin is just crowded enough to be an entertaining diversion. The problem is that Morris and director  Jeff Wadlow go back to the same jokes way too many times we see multiple scenes of Sam imagining action sequences that dont really happen and theres an odd habit in the final act to pepper the soundtrack with Spanish-language versions of American pop songs. The bigger problem is a distinct lack of actual laughs from those jokes, even the first time we hear them. I chuckled once or twice at Riggle amp' Howze, but its tempting to not even categorize the film as a comedy. Its a melting pot of a diversion, too thin in any specific genre department to really register. Its not action-packed enough, not funny enough, and the characters arent memorable enough.   Having said that, its never eye-rollingly unfunny, offensive or blatantly stupid. Perhaps this is a low bar to clear, but its a time-killer, something that could make a couple hours go by faster if youre in need of something to speed up the clock. Movies should do more than just kill your time, and this one could have with smarter dialogue and actual characters, but theres something to be said about a distraction from the international drama of this week, true or not.    