This movie is a loose remake of a  French crime drama written and directed by Jose Giovanni, who wrote a handful of classic genre pictures, including Jacques Beckers prison-break picture Le Trou,  Alain Corneaus gangster-on-the-run story Classe tous risques both  and  Jean-Pierre Melvilles one-last-caper Le Deuxieme Souffle . Giovannis original was a tense, lean narrative of a paroled con dogged by an old enemy, a cop with a grudge. This film, directed by  Rachid Bouchareb, best known in this country for his  Indignes aka Days of Glory, about North African soldiers fighting for France in World War II, makes the story a bit baggier, and, in a reach for contemporary significance, changes its setting to contemporary New Mexico and makes its paroled criminal a convert to Islam. In this update, the viewer knows things are going to end badly from the opening shots. One of the films characters is seen dragging an inert body over a desert landscape. Then, in a long shot, hes seen smashing the bodys head with a rock while screaming. The perspective reminded me of a similar death-seen-from-a-great distance scene, in  Abderrahmane Sissakos extraordinary   Timbuktu, but where Sissakos scene showed a quiet, implacable assurance, Boucharebs presentation has a slight ring of manipulative dynamics, and overdetermination. This feel persists over the course of many perfectly-framed vistas, including a shot of  Brenda Blethyn standing in a doorway that is practically begging the viewer to compare it to  The Searchers. But Blethyns recognizable presence also constitutes a godsend of sorts: when this film's excellent actors are given things to do, Boucharebs heavy-handedness is easier to ignore. Blethyns character is a parole officer. Forrest Whitaker plays Garnett, out three years early from a twenty-year-plus sentence' seems he killed a deputy during his gang-banger times.  Harvey Keitel is Agati, a humane but exceptionally businesslike sheriff who has an extreme grudge against Garnett. The movie takes its time with these characters. Garnett, praised early on by his spiritual adviser on having learned to control his anger theres the first-act gun-mention you always hear that Chekhov quotation pulled out about, rides around on a motorbike enjoying his newfound freedom while Agati seethes and ponders what hes going to do about this new problem preying on his mind. Blethyns character gives Garnett the old tough-not-quite-love treatment, bristling when he ingenuously boasts to her about a date with a woman hes about to go on. Tell her the truth, she bluntly advises him. And he does, eventually. But once Agati starts harassing him, and once an old criminal associate  Luis Guzman starts trying to lure him back into the fold, Garnett starts coiling up into himself more and more. An explosion is bound to happen. The suspense is spiced up here by the culture clashes implicit in the environment and explicit in some of the characterizations. Early in the film Keitels sheriff asks Blethyns character to stop by a barbecue celebrating the return home of some troops whove been serving in Afghanistan. Garnetts devotion to his newfound faith doesnt impress Agati at all: in fact it seems to deepen his resentment of the character. Whats odd about Two Men is the fact that after establishing all of this material relative to character, Bouchareb, who co-wrote the adaptation with  Olivier Lorelle and Yasmina Khadra, allows it to all fall away. The story builds to a climactic confrontation, but not the one, perhaps, that weve been expecting, and then ends on a frustratingly indeterminate note that has little to do with the issues the movie went to the trouble to raise in the first place. As exceptional as the acting in the picture is, and it is wonderful Whitaker and Keitel are as inventive and surprising as theyve been in years, and the supporting roles played by the likes of  Ellen Burstyn and  Stan Carp are well-sketched it cant entirely lift the movie from the rut it has all but plowed into by the end credits. 