A few years back, when  Night of the Living Dead-redolent zombie movies started popping up like, well, zombies, there was a joke among movie mavens who were past masters of the genre, to the effect of Havent the characters in these zombie movies ever seen anyzombie movies? Because if they had, theyd know to shoot the zombies in the head. Problem solved. I had a similar thought watching Two Night Stand, a slight but not-unengaging Young Persons Romantic Comedy, at a point when the two main characters, charmingly played by Annaleigh Tipton and  Miles Teller, discuss The Female Orgasm. Havent these kids seen When Harry Met Sally? True, its not difficult to imagine male millennials avoiding the  Nora Ephron Rob Reiner picture like the plague, but That Clip is sufficiently ubiquitous This is admittedly a minor quibble. Its not even really a quibble. However, its not an entirely great sign about a movies precise level of engagement when such thoughts occur. Take that as you will. Written by  Mark Hammer, who also wrote for the MTV Young Persons Edgy Lifestyles series  Skins, and directed by  Max Nichols, whose prior screen credit is a small role as a child actor in  Milos Formans  Ragtime, Two Night Stand gets off to a somewhat rocky start in establishing its  st -Century-Zeitgeist bonafides. "Montage of Quirkily Attractive Young Woman Prevaricating Over The Details Of Her Online Dating Profile, Complete With CGI Balloons Depicting Instant Messaging Dialogue"? Check. "Personal Observations Buttressed With Knowing Pop Culture References"? Check. Sample: Tiptons character, a breakup victim whos been taking it hard on her sassy roomies couch, notes of her current existence, Im going backwardsIm Benjamin Buttoning! You Live In BROOKLYN? Joke Directed At A Potential Sex Partner?" Check.  Tiptons Megan impulsively hooks up with Tellers Alec' hostilities and misunderstandings ensue after the deed is done and shes looking to make a getaway, but the getaways impossible because a blizzard has socked New York City and the now-resentful duo is snowed in.  Michael Showalters TV-screen bit part as a wacky weatherman is broad but not undiverting. This is where the movie settles in and gets interesting, as the two discern an opportunity for complete honesty in the current situation. Its not Sexual Perversity In Chicago, nor is it meant to be, as romantic comedy convention calls for a cessation of hostility at some point. Tipton and Teller, neither of whom is conventionally glamorous, mesh well together, and Nichols keeps their exchanges brisk and makes the most of the limited cinematic space the scenario demands he work with. And yes, the gentleman is more than a bit player in Ragtime' his father is  Mike Nichols, a director whos handled his share of iconic rom-coms  Working Girl,  Heartburn, Whos Afraid of  Virginia Woolf, that sort of thing. Where the movie loses what oomph it has is in the cutaways to the ostensibly high-style canoodlings of Megans roomie and her boyfriend, which look like outtakes from a particularly dopey CW sitcom, and of course the commit-cute finale in which the "Meant For Each Otherness" of it all is asserted. Such scenes always involve more than a modicum of contrivance, as in the airport-gate-slow-clap scene' in any event, this one sets the "Big Realization" on New Years Eve, which suggests writer Hammer has seen When Harry Met Sally even if his characters havent.  