Films like Unbroken, and the  Laura Hillenbrand book on which its based, capture something we all hope is true about ourselves that we too are unbreakable. That when faced with horrendous, life-threatening situations, we would respond in similar fashion to Louis Zamperini, finding a new well of courage within ourselves and surviving the unimaginable. It is the resilience of the human spirit that has drawn us to films based on true stories again and again to experience pain and triumph in the relative comfort of a movie theater seat.  Unbroken opens with a powerfully staged and shot sequence of aerial combat that surprisingly defines the film's strengths and weaknesses over the next two-plus hours. The attention to detail as Zamperini Jack OConnell, Russell Phil Phillips  Domhnall Gleeson and Hugh Cup Cuppernell Jai Courtney spin their plane around and take aim at the enemy feels accurate. Theres a weight to the gunfire and a fragility to the aircraft itself that conveys that these people were always a more-accurate gunsight away from tragedy. And yet theres something wrong here too. The sunset on the horizon looks like a painting. The clouds are perfectly placed for visual impact. The little drop of blood on Zamperinis forehead cant hide his movie star looks or movie star make-up. Everything feels accurate in its staging, and yet also not quite genuine. It's Hollywood, old-fashioned movie accurate. And despite OConnells instant charisma the guy is going to be a MASSIVE star, this feeling never leaves Unbroken the sense that were watching human suffering that looks too pretty and too refined to convey its intended impact. Louis Zamperini should have become a household name for his athletic ability. The Torrance Tornado was a US Olympic athlete whose career was cut short when he joined World War II as a bombardier. Even in country, Zamperini is seen training, pushing himself right at the moment that most people would give up. He is the kind of runner who hangs back, and only makes his move when everyone has reached the point of exhaustion. Of course, this is a character trait that will serve him well during the nightmare hes about to endure. Zamperini and two other men, including Phil, survive a plane crash in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. They barely make it long enough to board a raft, where the conditions of hunger, dehydration and heat exhaustion take their toll. These scenes are remarkably well-staged and executed by director  Angelina Jolie and her team. Theyre the best in the film, the moments in which we can feel Zamperinis increasing desperation and likely death. They have a focus, fragility and purpose that the second half of the film lacks.   That begins when Zamperini is captured after  days adrift, and forced into horrific conditions and hard labor in Japanese Prisoner of War camps. Here, Jolie simply fails to convey the danger and whats truly at stake. Unbroken starts to go through the motions of history recreation instead of real character drama, and while I have loved  Roger Deakins work in the past, its too pretty here, covering every shot in that vague beige of WWII memory, which never allows us to put ourselves in Zamperinis speedy shoes. If we cant feel the urgency of his plight, we wont have the same emotional response to it as we would with more blood, more dirt, and just more danger. It becomes something we watch instead of something we experience. There's a difference. The relative disappointment of Unbroken has nothing to do with Jack OConnell, a truly gifted actor who has emerged as a fully-formed movie star with this, his even better work in  Starred Up, and next years great . He may not be a household name yet. He will be. In fact, hes so good that one wishes Jolie asked more of him. Gleeson also deserves praise for taking a smaller role and making it memorable. He too is an actor really worth watching. Unbroken could be a film that we look back on as an early entry in the careers of major stars. Because the disappointing thing is we wont really look back at the film itself on its own merits. Its one of those inspirational Hollywood dramas about which there isnt anything "overtly wrong" with it. Its well-cast, it looks great, it has that intense centerpiece in the raft, and it certainly conveys a true story worth telling. And yet I keep coming back to that beautiful sunrise that opens the film. Its just too damn pretty. 