Last week, as I was walking out of a screening of Vacation, a fellow critic, engaged in passionate argument with some other colleagues, pointed at me and said, You! I heard YOU laughing. And I said, well, yes, I was laughing, at some particular parts.  My poor friend was searching, perhaps desperately at this point, for someone who shared his cmon, it wasnt THAT bad opinion of the film. And I happen to have, for better or worse, a laugh thats hard to miss. But I couldnt go that far with him about this necessarily self-conscious sequel or is it a reboot? to the famed National Lampoon films of the same nametheme. No way, no how. Because Vacation is, minute to minute, one of the most repellent, mean-spirited gross-out comedies its ever been my squirmy displeasure to sit through. This relentless farce of humiliation asks us to guffaw at a gruesome highway death, another presumed death by blunt-force trauma andor drowning andor spoiler alert for those who sit through end credits? bear attack. It locates humor in the sight of a young boy using a used hypodermic needle as a dart launched against his brother, and, at the very end, that brother unearthing his ostensible virility by beating on a snooty teenage girl.  I could go on, and on, and on. But if youve seen the trailers, which feature the highway death gag, and the hypo gag, and the set up to the hypo gag which is that the clueless Griswold family, thinking theyve discovered a secret, mineral-rich hot spring, are revealed to be swimming in a pool of raw sewage and more you get the tone of the film, which is similar to that of the very popular, and largely vile and hypocritical Hangover movies. Vacation, like those films, features the affably goofy  Ed Helms in a lead role. Here Helms plays a grown-up Rusty Griswold the teen son character initially played by  Anthony Michael Hall in the  National Lampoons Vacation' the most famous subsequent Rusty is, Id say,  Johnny Galecki, who played the role in s  National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation. Rusty is a pilot for an airline called Econo-Air, and in the opening scene, hes given his hapless nice-guy props by an aged colleague whos clearly suffering from dementia, and who nearly crashes the plane when Rusty leaves the cockpit for a bathroom break. You remember what I was saying before about the jokes in this movie. After a slick playboy pilot for a more elite carrier  Ron Livingston obliges Rusty to eat dirt on a shuttle line, Rusty gets home to find discontent in the domestic hearth. His younger son, Kevin  Steele Stebbins has been tormenting older brother James Skylar Grisondo, per his usual routine, we are led to believe by beleaguered mom Debbie  Christina Applegate. This time, its by magic-markering James Has A Vagina on his guitar. You remember what I was saying Anyway. I might as well fess up here that the most laughs I got from the movie were via Steele Stebbins as the older-brother-tormenting Kevin. The character as written is typically nasty and foul-mouthed, and its pretty clear that directors and co-writers Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley who also wrote  Horrible Bosses, so, um, yeah werent expecting to get more out of the character than the usual cheap hey, check out this little kid cursing a blue streak laughs. But Stebbins and perhaps I should be more disturbed than amused by this invests the character with a relentless bad-seed malevolence, a gleeful aura of irredeemability, thats so mortifying its actually often quite funny.    As for the rest of the cast, well, I used to think that Helms, whose upending of Middle American blandness on The Daily Show was always reliably droll, did those dreadful Hangover films because they paid well' now I wonder that he actually believes these movies are good, and the question unsettles me. But thats life. Christina Applegate, whose work on Married With Children gave her valuable experience in playing characters whose dignity, such as it might be, is regularly affronted, shows similar game good spirits in her activities here.  Chris Hemsworth, playing Rustys brother-in-law, assays an exaggerated Southern accent and strides around with an oversize prosthetic penis, which, again, you probably know from the trailer As the Griswolds drive erratically across the country the movie doubles down on the imaginary-car-from-hell device of the  original Vacation shows a peculiar perspective on the American character. This Made-In-USA clan suffers abasement after abasement, literally swimming in feces at one point, but still soldiers on in pursuit of a cherished goal a sojourn to Walley World. And even there, degradation awaits. And these dumb, wan, mediocre, sad-sack Americans are too stupid to even understand whats happening to them, yet too plucky to back down. Perpetual stooges. 