Grard Depardieu and  Isabelle Huppert first appeared onscreen together in s  Going Places, a still-coruscating, anti-buddy sex comedy directed by the currently out-of-favor-in-cinephile-land director  Bertrand Blier. Huppert played Jacqueline, a rebellious teen who loses her virginity under problematic circumstances to the two louts played by Depardieu and Patrick Dewaere. Isabelle and Gerard were then the romantic leads in Maurice Pialats  Loulou, in which Huppert played a young woman who flips off her nasty abusive husband and her bourgeois social set to pursue erotic rapture with Depardieus titular hunk who exudes a Joe-Dallesandro-gone-Gallic allure. That movie was a kind of erotic landmark of ostensibly mainstream moviemaking, in part because of Huppert and Depardieus candor and lack of inhibition. The performers continue to exhibit those qualities forty years after the fact, reuniting in the evocative, sometimes puzzling, and sometimes moving Valley of Love. This is the latest film from  Guillaume Nicloux, who recently made  The Kidnapping of Michel Houellebecq, in which the French literary former enfant terrible played himself in a fictional scenario. Initially, Valley of Love also seems occupied with meta activities' the lead actors play characters named Grard and Isabelle. But and its a substantial "but" their characters are a former married couple, one with an adult son that committed suicide. Thats not true of Huppert and Depardieu, despite the fact that their characters, meeting in the USA's own Death Valley after years of estrangement, are also film performers. Depardieus jape of honoring a pesky Americans autograph request by signing Bob De Niro leads to some interesting discomfort for him. Obviously, Nicloux got these performers back together to extrapolate on, or perhaps exploit, their iconography, but hes up to quite a bit more than that.  The dead son has, in separate but very nearly verbatim letters, asked Grard and Isabelle to meet for seven days at Death Valleys park' at the end of their stay, he promises, he will appear to them. Grard has acquiesced reluctantly' hes got health issues weighing on his mind. While Huppert, now over , still looks sensational, the sight of the gargantuan Depardieu with his shirt off, suntan or not, somehow brings to mind Fredric Forrests  Apocalypse Now monologue about the boiled sides of beef. Isabelle believes that the manifestation will occur, and implores Gerard to stay and have faith. And thats the films operating mechanism' the rest of Valley of Love consists of the performerscharacters sometimes pained, sometimes wryly funny interactions. Both Grard and Isabelle deal with forms of individual anxiety this being a European art film, the scene in which one of them vomits feels a little pro forma, and Nicloux throws in more intimations of the supernatural as the promised day draws closer. The Death Valley vistas are often spectacular, the melancholic, dissonant music of Charles Ives is aptly used, and Depardieu and Huppert resonate mightily even when theyre not up to much. Its a little jarring to see these two one-time emblems of rebellion in the roles of aged parents who just didnt understand, but of course thats part of the films point. Youthful impudence is a great and sometimes useful thing, but it is, alas, practically unsustainable, which is something we never quite get while were exercising it. These characters, and the actors playing them, get it very, very well. Its in the way that Depardieu and Huppert can convey an aspect of phenomenological rue that gives this sometimes muddled movie its ultimate value. 