See that lost, uncertain look in  Thomas Janes eyes in that picture above? Its there in every scene in Vice, almost to the degree that I think hes winking at the audience at times Yes, I know this is B-movie junk, but I needed the paycheck. Just go with it. The problem with Vice is that it cant even fulfill those low, for-the-money, pure escapism expectations. Its one of those nearly straight-to-VOD pieces that fluctuates between boring and offensive, never rising above either adjective. Some will dismiss it by saying its so ineffective as to never really aggravate critical faculties, but that doesnt mean its not a complete waste of time and talent as well. In a not-too-distant future, the elite have access to a virtual reality playground that allows them to live out their wildest fantasies with  Blade Runner-esque androids who look and behave exactly like real people. Always wanted to rob a bank and shoot your way out of the ensuing conflict? Go to Vice, run by the above-the-law Julian  Bruce Willis. Of course, as in all Hollywood condemnations of violent video game culture which is what this is at its core, the violence of this fantasy world bleeds out into the real world, making problems for tough-as-nails cop Roy Jane. The paper-thin idea being that if people are allowed to give into their wildest fantasies, they wont be able to distinguish between them and reality. And so the people who get ultra-violent in the world of Vice continue that in Roys district, leading him to target Julian as public enemy . Meanwhile, Kelly  Ambyr Childers, so great in the underrated  We Are What We Are, a replicant in the world of Vice who goes through every day thinking thats a special one and usually ends up killed, has become self-aware. Without warning, her system malfunctions, and shes overloaded with memories she shouldnt have. Self-aware, she goes on the run, even tracking down her creator and helping Roy topple the corrupt adult playground of Vice. If it sounds familiar, it should. Borrowing liberally from classics like Blade Runner and dozens of quasi-sci-fi non-classics like  Virtuosity, Vice feels as artificially replicated as the androids in its narrative. Judged superficially, Vice does nothing that hasnt been done before with more style and substance. The movie is visually dull even when judged against its low-budget, essentially straight-to-VOD brethren. Most people dont come to movies like Vice for complex visual storytelling, but that doesnt mean we should excuse cheap sets, dull framing and other signs of lazy filmmaking. Even if it didnt work as art or escapism, Vice wastes an opportunity for social commentary as well. Roy is a non-character, almost so inconsequential to the storyline that poor Jane doesnt look like hes been directed to do anything in the climactic scenes. Even the director realized they didnt need him. Worst of all, Vice is about giving personality and life to an android female who has been created as a plaything for men to abuse and behave with without repercussions. And yet turning Kelly self-aware doesnt make her confident and driven. It sends her back into the arms of her male creator, turning her into a damsel-in-distress who can only be saved by a man. Thats a bad B-movie concept of identity. And by the time director Brian A. Miller finally gives Kelly something to do, its in the most generic tough action movie chick way possible. The talented Childers deserves so much better. Heck, so does Thomas Jane.   