Victoria is a breathtaking technical accomplishment. Its right there in the tagline One City. One Night. One Take. For  minutes,  Sebastian Schipper and his cast filmed the entirety of Victoria, reportedly only doing the entire piece a few times and picking the best one. In other words, there are no cheats here. No hidden cuts when a door closes or someone walks by a suspicious wall. It is literally one take, and it takes place all over Berlin, at night, even developing into an intense action movie. Sadly, the second half of Victoria isnt as breathtaking as the first, as characters are forced to make some unbelievably dumb decisions just to fit into the one-take structure, almost leading one to question if there isnt a better version of Victoria that allowed for two or three takes.  The best thing about Victoria isnt actually its technical prowess its the lead performance from the mesmerizing  Laia Costa as the title character. She holds the camera from first frame to last as Schipper doesnt leave her perspective on what will surely be one of the most unforgettable nights of this young womans life. Victoria is on holiday in Berlin. We meet her clubbing in one of the major city's many hotspots an underground dance hall with no windows. On her way out, likely to another club, Victoria meets a quartet of guys, and they naturally take notice of this vibrant, beautiful young lady. Sonne  Frederick Lau strikes up a flirtation, and the first half of Victoria actually plays more like one of  Richard Linklaters Before movies than one might expect. Victoria and Sonne do a lot of walking and talking, Sebastian Schipper and cinematography Sturla Brandth Grovlens camera circling around this likable pair. Their conversations feel heartfelt and genuine, particularly one in a closed caf at right around the hour mark. And thats where Victoria turns a corner. One of the guys in Sonnes group ends up getting drunk enough to essentially become useless, and we learn that these guys have some unexpected plans for the evening. Rather surprisingly, Victoria becomes a heist film as our quiet protagonist has to become a getaway driver. Schippers camera movements get more hectic, the film gets more impatient, and it essentially turns into an action film. Its interesting to watch how even in a one-take film, form impacts content. Theres no room for editing, but choices are still being made here, as the form often mimics the mood. Its jubilant and fluid in club scenes' panicked and shaky when that reflects the characters state of being. The camera itself becomes a character in Victoria, someone else on the journey of this unforgettable night. It doesnt so much feel like were reflecting Victorias perspective as much as were another member of the party, someone who doesnt want to leave our heroine alone in this dangerous city. Costa is simply perfect here. Watch the way her eyes convey the emotion of the moment, whether or not its in the cautious flirtation with Sonne or the fear of the second act. Shes often an observer to the insanity of whats going on around her, and she does so much internally, embodying the character in ways that were likely dictated by the form. Shes not allowed the escape of setting up another shot or altering performance over multiple takes. It makes for a deeply honest, genuine performance.    Sadly, the film kind of lets her down at a certain point. The pace sags significantly at around the -minute mark and never quite recovers from it with  minutes to spare. Like a lot of nights out on the town in major cities in our twenties, it goes on just a bit too long, getting exhausting before its over. And yet its easy to remember and focus on the highlights, which are plentiful for at least the running time of an average movie. If anything, the greatest accomplishment of Victoria is that you stop wondering how it was done and experience the characters and their incredible journey. It becomes less a movie about one take and more a movie about one character. 