Fans of minimalist but picturesque cinema will find a lot to like in Violet if they understand that when I say minimalist, Im not kidding. The characters in this movie are not inordinately expressive and when they are being expressive, talking is maybe nineteenth or twentieth on their list of modes. Set in a Flemish-speaking semi-rural area of Belgium, this movie, written and directed by  Bas Devos, examines the effect an act of violence has on the teen that witnessed it and did nothing to stop it. And by examines, I mean it just sets the camera back and looks for a long time, a lot of the time.     The movie opens with a shot of a bank of security monitors, and its on these that we see a stabbing, from a different perspective on each monitor. Its an eerie scene not least because the mall where it happens seems utterly deserted except for the two perpetrators, the victim, and the kid witnessing it all, Jesse  Cesar De Sutter. Jesse comes away from the incident scuffed up. He tries to make some connection with the parents of his murdered friend. He and his other friends once again take up their BMX bikes and race through suburban roads and forests and biking parks. Jesse experiences some ostracization. One biker says to Jesse, I dont care what those guys think of you, but in my eyes youre a coward. Dont come back here. Jesse blanks out as he partakes in other desultory activities' he goes to a death metal concert, and the song played by the band he sees Deafheaven' typically, they are never seen onscreen is Violet. Hence the movies title. I cant tell you why, but there you have it.    Watching Violet, I was reminded at certain points of  Gus Van Sants   Paranoid Park, in which a skateboarder grapples with guilt after being directly involved in an accidental death. Like  Van Sant, Devos seems to have a real affinity with the secret inner world of teens, and he has picked a cast of them that is both enigmatic and charismatic. But to be honest, Violet is so glacially paced that it makes the Van Sant film look like an episode of Murder, She Wrote. And Paranoid Park is pretty minimal by Van Sants own standards, so take that for what you will.    Where the movie really soars is in its pictorial quality. Devos shot his movie in mm, which offers particular advantages in image detail and clarity. He does not move the camera much, but each individual shot contains an object or just a focal point to which the eye will almost automatically move' he holds each shot to allow the viewer, once drawn in, to then mentally dolly back out, and take in the whole of a composition. How Devos relates this way of seeing to the themes suggested by the narrative remains oblique throughout. For this viewer, the formal element and the narrative never quite cohered, and I wound up admiring the movie for its ambition while unsatisfied with its achievement.    