Disclaimer: this review of "VooDoo,"an ultra low-budget found-footage horror film,should be a .-star review sincethe film doesn't really come to life until about  minutes in. Before this turning point, wefollow two cousins, Dani  Samantha Stewart and Stacy  Ruth Reynolds, as they rebound from recent heartbreak by sunbathing, drinking, and flirting their way throughout famousLos Angeles landmarks, like Venice Beach and Hollywood Boulevard. But at the -minute mark, the film enters agrotesque funhouse-style recreation of a Boschian hellscape. I can honestly tell you: I have yet to pick my jaw up off the floorafterspendingalmost minutes! watching this aglet-less shoestring budgetvision of Hell. Is it good? Uh, well, kind of. Does it make sense? Hmm, er, ask me another. Is it worth seeing? Oh, absolutely. I'm gonna have to back up for a moment and talk about the plot of "VooDoo"before I get to what makes itso special. Dani, a New Orleans resident, parties it up with cousinStacy, a Los Angeles bohemian who enjoys pot and is in a rock band. Duringtheir relatively tame outings, Dani confesses that she just finished having an affair with a married man. The trouble is that the wife of theman in question is avoodoopriestess. This doesn't seem to matter throughout much of "VooDoo" since so much of the film is about how Dani and Stacy are doing everything but thinking about their problems. There are a few signs that trouble is on the way, like a laughably bad pre-opening-credits sequence that follows a mysterious killing spree perpetrated by wait for it a hammy, child-killingvoodoopriestess. But there's really not much else of note going on plot-wise during the first  minutes or so,apart from a phone call from an ex-lover, and a warning from a palm-reader. This is something of a problem since, as was previously mentioned, "VooDoo" is a very low-budget movie. Which is to say: the acting ain't great Stewart's Southern accent is especially unfortunate' the production values are non-existent' there's a random cameo from porn star Ron Jeremy.I mean, arguably, the first  minutes of the film doesn't need any of those things since all it has to do to be effective is lull you into a sense of complacency before delivering itslong sucker punch of a finale. Nevertheless, it is dispiriting to see a movie come soclose but ultimately fail to say something though arguablysomething stupid about young women, and the way their identities are dependent on theirsexual freedom. That theme isright there swimming on the surfacethe film, and it's the only emotional tether to the film's brutal, exhausting, preposterous, intoxicating nightmare-stew of a climax. Before we get to the good stuff, I mustfile one major complaint:this movie's found footage premise barelymakessense.Dani wants to film her trip to the big city of Los Angeles. So, she's filming duringperfunctory scenes of wide-eyed, tourist-y pleasure, like when Dani visits Grauman's Chinese Theatre and freaks outafter she findsMarilyn Monroe's star on the Walk of Fame. And she's still filming when some weird hobo gawps at Dani and Stacy as they sunbathe ... OK, that one kind of makes sense. But Stacy keeps filming when Dani gets a mysterious phone call? And when they're smoking weed in the back of a cab? And when Dani'sabout to go to bed? Who does this and what am Isupposed to think about the vacuity of these characters, beyond a generic understanding that they are mindless cyphers who have to move the film's high-concept premise along byhook or by crook?   We pause for breath. This is, after all, not a .-star review. In order to tell you about the part of" VooDoo" that makes it worth seeing, Imust regrettably spoiler you, gentle reader it's for your own good: the movie ends on a gratuitously grim down note. You will not see this ending coming, despitea couple of hints of impendingvoodoo-related violence. But there is a solid - minute segment of this film set in Hell. And it features some intoxicatinglyderanged, albeittasteless, and sometimes pointlessly cruel, scenes of diabolicaltorture. This is a movie where a demon commands one victim to "Choke on your mother's bowels" right before serving up a pair of intestines. There's a scene where aman gets assaulted with a crucifix. And there's a scenewhere Dani is visited by a child molester. And then there's her dead mother. And for good measure, avery horny Devil in this movie, too. Again, I can't quite believe what I saw, and I'm seriously awed by the zealous energy, and ingenuous bad taste it required to kick this film into high gear at the very last minute. Youreally must see this film, if only to sate your morbid curiosity. It's not exactly good,but it is pretty inspired in a very unclean, very unsound way.   