Over the course of the -minute "Walk of Shame,"  Elizabeth Banks character a perky and wholesome local news anchor is mistaken for:  A stripper  A hooker  A junkie  A crack whore  A drug dealer  A thief  A masseuse who gives happy endings  A witch This repetitive misogynistic streak is in the service of painfully wacky gags, the vast majority of which land with a thud. But then! Writer-director  Steven Brill " Little Nicky," say no more dares to make an abrupt, -degree turn in the films final moments by trumpeting itself as an indignant feminist manifesto. Just because a pretty blonde woman is traipsing about the streets of Los Angeles in a skimpy, yellow dress and high heels, this does not make her deserving of scorn and degradation. Shame on everyone for treating her so poorly and shame on you too, sir or maam, for laughing at her plight if you do indeed find anything amusing here. It would all be galling if it werent so lame. But "Walk of Shame" is notable only for turning the unendingly adorable Banks into an unlikable figure. She certainly gives it her all and is game to go to extremes in every slapsticky situation. But her character is more of a collection of superficial, clichd ideas than an actual person, which makes it pretty much impossible to care whether she makes it out of her hellish night and gets home from her walk of shame in one piece. Its a depressing waste of her comic talents and charm. Banks stars as the glossy and vapid Meghan Miles, whos on the verge of landing the network television gig of her dreams. For some reason, an anchor of her stature in the second-largest market in the country doesnt have an agent, but instead communicates with the network bigwigs through her producer, played by a barely-there  Willie Garson. The ways in which "Walk of Shame" gets TV news wrong could be the subject of a whole nother essay, but well move on for now. But when Meghan goes out for a wild girls night with her two best friends, she gets so hammered, she doesnt realize that the network honchos are coming to L.A. the very next day to assess her one last time before offering her the job. This major plot point is one of the movies many contrivances. Meghan has the obligatory wisecracking pal  Gillian Jacobs as well as the obligatory ditzy pal Sarah Wright Olsen. After downing way too many shots with them, she ends up going home with a sweet, cute bartender named Gordon  James Marsden, also underused. But then a series of complications ensues: Her car gets towed with her wallet inside. She loses her cell phone, but doesnt know anyones number to call for help anyway. She also doesnt know where she is when she stumbles out of Gordons downtown loft because she knows nothing about Los Angeles geography despite the fact that, oh, she covers this town for a living.   Not that "Walk of Shame" gets its geography right either' there is no intersection of Rossmore and Normandie avenues. Theyre parallel north-south streets. But now were just nitpicking. And so Meghan stumbles from one zany andor dangerous situation to another. A couple of mismatched cops  Ethan Suplee and  Bill Burr think shes a prostitute on a rampage and chase her all over the place. A cab driver  Ken Davitian demands that she give him a lap dance. A bus driver  Niecy Nash shoots pepper spray in her face. The most surprising and inspired scene of all takes place in a crack den, where a trio of unlikely allies DaVone McDonald, Lawrence Gilliard Jr. and  Alphonso McAuley offer her shelter as well as advice on her on-air delivery. But first, they refer to her as "that bitch from the news." 