First, a confession: I have never played any incarnation of Warcraft. Im just going to put that out there right now be up front about it. Were all friends here. We should be honest with each other. So I went in with an open mind to Warcraft, the movie based on the video game, and Im reviewing it purely on its own merits as a stand-alone entity. Many of you out there may read this and cry foul: Shes never played the game! She has no idea what shes talking about! And Im OK with that. Really, I am. But Im also hoping that the game is more emotionally engaging or at least, you know, fun than the movie I just saw. Because that thing was a dour mess. And it brings me no joy to report that to you because Warcraft comes from a filmmaker whose work Ive been a big fan of:  Duncan Jones. With just two features to his credit, Jones has shown a real knack for taking complex, sci-fi stories and telling them in clever, intimate ways. His debut,  Moon, was my favorite movie of ' it was about mind-blowing, existential stuff but it had real verve, immediacy and heart. Plus: If one  Sam Rockwell is good, two Sam Rockwells are great. Jones  follow-up, the time-travel puzzle  Source Code, felt like a bit of a let-down by comparison but it was thrilling and challenging, and it showed his evolution as a filmmaker with a bigger cast and more expensive toys. So its hard to figure out what happened with Jones and Warcraft. Its as if the endeavor swallowed him whole. This was clearly a formidable undertaking filled with sweeping imagery, motion-capture performances and tons of visual effects, all being projected in overwhelming IMAX -D. In the midst of all that, its difficult to hear his voice to see his attention to detail. An enormous budget and state-of-the-art technology have resulted in a movie that looks cheesy and cartoonish a big-screen version of a video game world that more closely resembles the video game commercials you see on TV. But Warcraft is difficult to follow from both a visual and a narrative perspective, with massive battle scenes between orcs and humans in which its difficult to tell whos doing what to whom. Similar to luggage at the airport, many orcs look alike. Hulking, tusked, muscular and festooned with fierce accoutrements, theyre like refugees from a GWAR concert. But eventually you dont know whether youre looking at a good orc or a bad orc, and the CGI spectacle of it all renders everything with a glossy, detached sameness. Forgive me for wanting a little realism in my orcs. Because yes, thats what Warcraft is about: orcs and humans, and their noisy efforts to enter each others realms and destroy each other. But the mythology is much more dense than that' the script from Jones and  Charles Leavitt contains reams of expository dialogue, yet the story itself feels mind-bogglingly convoluted. And yet, in between the self-serious, stilted conversations, we get snippets of quippy, anachronistic banter that are meant to provide humor but instead end up being jarring.   The film begins with orc warrior chief Durotan  Toby Kebbell, his pregnant wife, Draka  Anna Galvin, and their clan leaving their dying world by passing through a portal that looks like a wall of swirly, minty mouthwash. On the other side is the more peaceful and pastoral Azeroth although every sparkly, new fantasy realm we enter here calls to mind a place weve visited previously at some point in the Lord of the Rings saga. Theres a lot of borrowing going on in Warcraft. Once they arrive, they attack the humans for control of the land: knights led by Durotans counterpart, the noble but personality-free Lothar  Travis Fimmel, the Brooklyn pickle entrepreneur of  Rebecca Millers Maggies Plan. But while Lothar dutifully serves his king  Dominic Cooper and queen  Ruth Negga, Durotan begins to question the motives of the clearly insane and power-hungry orc warlock Guldan  Daniel Wu. The fact that Guldan has pulsating green eyes and likes to drain people of their life force to fuel his own magical abilities may have something to do with it. The humans have a powerful wizard of their own: Medivh, or  The Guardian, as hes known. Hes played by  Ben Foster in a bit of casting alone that suggests perhaps hes not to be trusted. And sure enough, Foster tries to bring glimmers of his trademark menace to the character, but its hard to act amid all the noise. Basically, hes called upon to transport himself and others from place to place by stringing together strands of glowing, blue light and chanting a few spells. In the midst of this struggle is Garona  Paula Patton, whos half human, half orc. The fact that shes being held prisoner and is dressed in chains and tatters for maximum sex appeal provides an uncomfortable racial element to the action, but Warcraft seems more interested in exploiting her character for titillation rather than exploring her significance from a societal perspective. Between this and the latest  Adam Sandler Netflix debacle,  The Do-Over, the charismatic Patton is having a rough couple of weeks. She deserves better. Eventually, alliances must be forged to save humanity and orc-kind alike. But first, young mage Khadgar  Ben Schnetzer, an ally of Lothars, must learn the secrets hidden inside a purple room thats meant to be futuristic but looks like a rejected set from Logans Run. Theres also a giant, evil statue made of clay that comes to life, but its more unintentionally hilarious than frightening. And before there can be any peace, there is pummeling lots and lots of pummeling as the orcs fight the humans as well as each other under hot, dusty skies. It is brutal. It is repetitive. It is numbing. And just as its ending, Warcraft leaves all kinds of plot threads dangling for the ambitious possibility of a sequel. But youll be likely to cry Game Over because this first one is easily a contender for the worst movie of the year. 