The Israeli film Wedding Doll, written and directed by Nitzan Gilady, has an unusual amount of pictorial beauty, both of the harsh and soft varieties. The harshness, or at least starkness, is provided by the Negev Desert, around which the movie is set. Its golden planes and imposing promontories are spectacular and a bit intimidating. The soft beauty is provided by the films lead actress, the brightly open-faced  Moran Rosenblatt, who plays Hagit, a mentally disabled young woman who has an uncanny talent: she crafts lovely little dolls using toilet paper and the rolls it comes on as her main material.  Hagit has a job at the small factory that manufactures said household staple, and the place isnt doing so well. The owner wants to shut it down, but his ambitious son Omri  Roy Assaf wants to innovate' either way, shell be out of a job. To forestall this, Hagit has her mom Sara  Assi Levy drive her to a gown shop, where she hopes to work as a seamstress. Her halting speech and awkward manner mean shes going to get the high hat, and she gets a variation on that quite a bit, even from a school kid who bounces a soccer ball at her and calls her weirdo.  Its worse than that: Hagit and her mom are estranged from other members of the family, including Hagits brother, whose infant child was once almost accidentally dropped by his sister. Omri is carrying on with Hagit a bit behind everybodys back, insisting that he keep their relationship secret Omri is also less than truthful to his buddies, who make a fine trio of narrow-minded small town vitelloni to be sure. Hagit is convinced that shes on the fast track to marriage with Omri whether the factory closes or not.  Oy. As much intriguing local detail and sharp characterization writerdirector Gilady brings to bear on this concise tale, the tale itself depicts the beautiful and often uncomprehending Hagit getting let down over and over again. Its heartbreaking. I understand that the viewer is meant to be won over, and possibly inspired, by the characters resilience. And while the movies disinclination to give Hagit any kind of break, fairy-tale or otherwise, speaks well of its commitment to a kind of realism, the depiction of provincial bigotry against differently-abled folk is, while likely accurate, also just plain depressing. The integrity of the filmmaking and the luminosity of Rosenblatts performance are undeniable. And I suppose the fact that I was affected as I was by Wedding Doll is testimony to its emotional effectiveness. But while Hagit is able to crack a smile at the movies end, I feel a pall wrapping around me every time I contemplate her predicament, or the predicament of her real-life models. 