This movie opens with a clearly on-less-than-great-terms couple of parents trying to corral their kids into a car. Dad Doug David Tennant is negotiating with his youngest girl, the adorable and strange Jess Harriet Turnbull about the friends she can bring with her' one of them, it seems, is a brick. Her best friends are stones now? Doug indignantly asks estranged wife Abi  Rosamund Pike shortly after. Have you spoken to anybody about it? The ever-exasperated Abi rolls her eyes and shoots back Who? A geologist? Good one, and What We Did On Our Holiday, written and directed by  Andy Hamilton and  Guy Jenkin, is replete with zingers, a quality not to be disdained in a family comedy of miscommunication. Doug and Abi are on the outs, planning to divorce, but reuniting for a weekend to visit Dougs kin in the Hebrides. Dougs dad Gordie  Billy Connolly is an ex football star whose latest birthday will probably be his last. As Gordie eventually explains to Abi and Dougs oldest child, the curious and analytical tween Lottie Emilia Jones: Youve heard of cancer? Well Ive got that. Doug and Abi are determined to keep up appearances not just for Gordie but the childrens sake. But of course the three children the middle one is a cheekily ingenuous boy, Mickey, played by Bobby Smallridge see right through their ever-feuding parents lies. Doug and Aris feckless, near-constant deceptions are countered by Gordies honesty. The exceptionally warm Connolly does great things with his role as a long-haired patriarch determined to go out of his life his way, despite the efforts of his other son, rich financier and utter twit Gavin Billy Miller, to stage a white elephant of a party for him.  Once Abi and Doug finally get their brood to Scotland, Gordie absconds to a beach with the three kids, where he sets an example of honesty that they eventually take to a bit of an extreme. Every human being on this planet is ridiculous in its own way, Gordie reflects to Lottie, going on to say that the point of life is to love them not just in spite but because of that. The movie is inspired by the BBC sitcom Outnumbered, also a Hamilton and Jenkin effort, in which two parents were pitted against three children and a lot of the dialogue was improvised in a kids say the darnedest things spirit. Holiday does a good job of making the young characters look terrifically spontaneous, and the adult cast is rife with expertise: Pike is both frazzled and dry, while Tennant proves that his wide-eyed intensity works as well as a comic tic as it does when hes playing an existentially tortured bloke in more serious fare. The movies storyline takes an eccentric turn when the kids decide to honor Gordies wish for a Viking funeral. While Hamilton and Jenkin provide a lot of gentle moments of poignancy, and the cinematography of the Scottish countryside shot by Martin Hawkins goes a long way in selling the movies the-simple-pleasures-of-life-are-best philosophy, Holiday wisely sticks to its frantic-but-not-grotesque-farce guns throughout its tidy  minutes. It wears not just its Britishness but its relative good taste on its sleeve: unlike its U.S. counterparts, theres nary a poop or fart joke in evidence in this domestic comedy. Its not what youd call major cinema, but its a breezy entertainment, particularly if youre a fan of one or more of the cast members.  