To  fully understand whats in store in the real-life football parable  When the Game Stands Tall, its probably good to know that star Jim  Caviezels most noteworthy film role was as Jesus in The Passion of the  Christ.  Turns  out his ability to preach and sway his disciples comes in pretty handy  as  Bob Ladouceur, the high-school coach behind the miraculous  decade-plus, record-breaking streak of  wins achieved by the De La  Salle Spartans of suburban Concord, Calif.  Stoic, soft-spoken and solemn think the opposite of blustery  Al Pacino in Any Given  Sunday  Coach Lad, as he is called, doesnt so much give pep talks as  deliver soul-enriching sermons. He underplays the importance of  collecting trophies and beating opponents and instead promotes a sense  of brotherhood, having your teammates back and pushing yourself to the  limit and beyond to achieve your goals.  His approach to the game, one that he has given most of his life to, is perhaps best summed up in a quotation from Matthew  :  that is recited onscreen: Whoever exalts himself shall be humbled. And  whoever humbles himself shall be exalted. In other words, it is not  about you, it is about others. All  these sentiments are worthwhile, of course. And considering that De La  Salle is a Catholic school and Coach Lad also was a religious studies  teacher, they arent gratuitous. Still, most often in its early  stages, the melodrama onscreen edges precipitously close to dissolving  into a puddle of platitudinous pabulum served in the manner of a rote  Sunday  school lesson. Part  of the problem with this particular sports story is the difficulty of  presenting De La Salle as an underdog. Which is why producer David  Zelon  Soul Surfer, another Christian-influenced sports film and  director  Thomas Carter  Coach Carter decided to zone in on the year  , when the Spartans lost their focus after Coach Lad suffered a  life-threatening heart attack turns out he was a secret smoker a  reason for a PG rating and one of the teams brightest stars is killed  in a random shooting the other reason for a PG rating.  With  their leader sidelined and a tragic act of violence resulting in a  painful absence in the lineup, the streak soon is as broken as the  players sense of dedication. After losing the first two games of the  season, Coach Lad is given the OK to resume his duties. And we as  moviegoers apparently have paid enough penance and watched enough  hardships to finally earn the right to see some actual football being  played.  Of  course, coming back from a two-game slump doesnt exactly qualify as a  resurrection even though the filmmakers pull out every trick in the book  to make it seem that way. The actual turning point that prevents When  the Game Stands Tall from becoming totally insufferable arrives  earlier when the kids go on a field trip to visit wounded veterans in a  recovery facility. The nervous and ultimately heartfelt interaction  between the fresh-faced actors and these wounded warriors who brave  through their disabilities is the films first of too-few emotional  touchdowns.    Certainly,  it is preferable than hearing Coach Lads dutiful wife  Laura Dern, who  tries her best but is ill-served by the script observe for the  umpteenth time that his job causes him to neglect his real family. How  neglectful is he? He doesnt even know how to grill a burger. Some dad  he is. Watching him toss the charred hockey pucks into the bushes?  Priceless, but not all that funny.  There are roughly  too many scenes of workouts involving giant tires pulled  down the field by rope wrapped around a players body to symbolize  their renewed drive. But the game action is fairly well shot and edited  although those bone-cruncher sound effects that resound every time someone  gets hit are a bit much. And the young actors, topped by Alexander  Ludwig tribute Cato in  The Hunger Games as an ace running back,  occasionally flash a welcome spark of spontaneity and share a natural  rapport together.  But   Michael Chiklis doesnt get to inject nearly enough humor as Coach  Lads more demonstrative assistant. And  Clancy Brown as Ludwigs father  is beyond redemption as the standard overbearing abusive parent who  lives vicariously through his sons victories. The  final acid test of whether When the Game Stands Tall stands up to  some of the greatest sports films? I have tissues at the ready when I  just think about "Brians Song" and " Rudy," Ive been known to shed a tear  or two over " Field of Dreams" and I always bawl my eyes out during "The  Blind Side" when it shows up on cable.  But this sucker for scoreboard sentiment was left dry-eyed this time.  To be fair, there was a glitch at my screening of When the Game Stands  Tall and the sound went out with seconds to go in the final game. But  its doubtful that it would have made any difference, judging by what I  could at least see. Just as any coach would tell you, it is not whether  you win or lose, it is how you play the game. But even though "When the  Game Stands Tall" comes alive occasionally, it is basically a dropped  ball.  