Noah Baumbachs latest film, While Were Young, begins with the image of an adorable infant with a sweetly tinkling lullaby version of  David Bowies Golden Years playing in the background. Its a contrast that perfectly encapsulates the films push-pull between the wisdom of age and the optimism of youth, as well as the balance it strikes between zesty ambition and quiet resignation. Baumbachs lead characters a longtime husband and wife played with a natural, lived-in chemistry by  Ben Stiller and  Naomi Watts are so vocal about how content they are as childless New Yorkers in their mid-s that its clear theyre protesting too much. And yet, when they strike up an unlikely friendship with a spirited couple in their mid-s, they cant help but get sucked into their energetic vortex. As writer and director, Baumbach allows us to enjoy the silliness of the older couples newfound lust for life, whether it manifests itself in a trendy fedora or a hip-hop dance class. But since hes the same age as Stiller and Watts characters, hes also decent to them in their awkward fumblings. He is them, and they are us. At the same time, he offers a biting yet affectionate skewering of Brooklyn hipster culture through the characters of  Adam Driver and  Amanda Seyfried, both for its ridiculousness and ubiquity as well as for the way it makes the rest of us feel impossibly old. The details are delightfully dead-on. These are people who make artisanal ice cream, ride bicycles everywhere, play board games and only listen to music on vinyl. That golden oldie All Night Long by  Lionel Richie is among their favorites. But theres a catch: While Driver and Seyfried and their friends are actively retro, they also possess a generational entitlement an expectation that they should have whatever they want, and have it now, without having to work too hard to get it. Stillers Josh, by comparison, has worked way too hard over the past decade on a dense and overlong documentary about intellectualism and power and some such' I wont even bother trying to explain it to you because watching Josh try to explain it is amusing enough. His wife, Cornelia, is a smart and seasoned producer whose father an underused  Charles Grodin is a pioneer of the genre along the lines of a Maysles or a Pennebaker. Josh yearns for such greatness and esteem, but it has eluded him. The character is a perfect fit for Stillers patented mix of restlessness and self-deprecation' more so than the one he played in Baumbachsmore dramatic Greenberg. Yet Josh feels rejuvenated when Drivers character, the wide-eyed and warmhearted Jamie, shows up to audit the college class he teaches and fawnsall over him. An aspiring documentarian himself, he quickly becomes Joshs new BFF' meanwhile, Jamies wife and constant companion, Seyfriedsfoul-mouthedDarby, befriends Cornelia and impresses her with an effortless cool. Through zippy and well-crafted use of montage and production design, Baumbach beautifully reveals the contrasts in these two couples lives.   There are traces of  Woody Allen at work here as While Were Young vividly makes fun of a specific subculture of hyper-articulate New York denizen, as well as the way its characters try to stave off the malaise of aging by clinging to characters who radiate the exotic promise of youth. But it also takes a clear-eyed look at the narcissism that can result from settling into a smug life of parenthood and domesticity, as evidenced by Josh and Cornelias former BFFs, played sharply by Maria Dizzia and  Adam Horovitz. Better known as Ad-Rock of the Beastie Boys, Horovitz is great in this a total natural and a surprising source of a calm and stability in a film full of flux. But While Were Young takes a turn in the third act as it grapples with some ethical dilemmas, and it doesnt quite work. It becomes angrier and heavier as Josh uses his inquisitive nature to unearth some dark truths both about himself and his new friends. It feels like a totally different movie as it reaches its very public climax, and an inferior one. Many Baumbach movies feature brilliant but immature people doing terrible things to each other  The Squid and the Whale,  Margot at the Wedding and While Were Young is no exception. The observant and mocking humor that makes the films first two-thirds so breezy and enjoyable gives way to shattering realizations, but Baumbach ultimately tempers that instinct somewhat by exhibiting genuine sympathy for Stillers character. While Were Young searches for the blurry line we all cross once weve entered middle age, finds it and tramples all over it, butit does so with kindness for those of us whove made that inevitable journey and survived with some dignity intact. 