Patrick Wilson has made a career out of playing characters whose wholesome, all-American good looks cover up deep moral conflict, from early films like  Hard Candy and  Little Children to more recent efforts like  Space Station  and  Home Sweet Hell. He excels at it he seems comfortable with the kinds of uncomfortable contradictions these roles provide. And so it comes as no surprise that in his latest film, the unfortunately titled Zipper, the family-values prosecutor he plays is hiding an increasingly reckless fetish for high-priced escorts. Wilson brings as much integrity as he can to this tormented figure and he leads an impressive supporting cast that includes  Lena Headey,  Ray Winstone and  Richard Dreyfuss, who anchor a handful of individually solid scenes. Despite all their efforts, though, they cant save a movie thats at odds with itself. This second feature from director and co-writer  Mora Stephens has all the stylistic and thematic trappings of a made-for-cable movie youd watch late at night and hate yourself for in the morning. But it also strives, kinda, to be a serious political drama and to make a statement about the publics tendency to rush to judgment in the face of hypocrisy. Its shadings of the  Eliot Spitzer prostitution scandal are unmistakable, yet the film as a whole feels sort of retro as a tawdry cautionary tale. How can we enjoy clucking at this ambitious mans downfall when tens of millions of people have had their own extramarital activities exposed in the Ashley Madison hack? It all seems more quaint than criminal. Like Spitzer, Wilsons Sam Ellis is a star on the rise. Hes a smug federal prosecutor in South Carolina with a strong track record and a secure home life. His wife, Jeannie Headey, is beautiful, stylish and politically connected' a former lawyer herself, she now devotes her time to raising the couples young son, performing charity work and maintaining a gracious and immaculate home. But all of that isnt enough for him. A drunken kiss after a work party with a gorgeous and seductive intern  Dianna Agron leads to increased use of online porn and masturbation. In no time, hes perusing high-end escort websites and making sweaty, nervous calls on a pre-paid cell phone to arrange dates with beautiful women whose services begin at , an hour. The first meeting at a luxury hotel with a sweetly reassuring brunette named Christy  Alexandra Breckenridge, a standout in a single scene doesnt go so well at first, and his awkwardness provides genuine tension. Amusingly, she refers to the cash hes brought her in an envelope as a donation. But from that point, hes hooked, which Stephens and co-writer  Joel Viertel depict through a standard but slickly edited montage of visits to the ATM and trysts with a variety of women in expensive lingerie.   At the same time, though, Sam has his eye on Washington, and makes plans to run for Congress with the help of his shrewd wife, a ruthless campaign consultant Dreyfuss and a magazine writer Winstone whose fawning article positions his launch. And so, as is so often the case with self-destructive types, Sam pursues his sexual desires with greater fervor just as his seemingly squeaky-clean personal life is about to undergo massive scrutiny. At his most desperate, he gets hit by a car while running across the street to pull out more cash, but he keeps going because hes so obsessed. Ostensibly, this moment is meant to be suspenseful and dramatic but it ends up being unintentionally funny. Despite Wilsons dedication to humanizing this clichd figure, Zipper actually becomes more compelling in its third act when it shifts its focus to Jeannie her reaction to her husbands infidelities and how she weighs the betrayal against her own dreams of power and prestige. Headey is coolly fierce and shares some powerful moments with both Wilson and Winstone as the reporter who threatens to expose this juicy sex scandal. But these scattered pieces dont create a complete and convincing picture. You want the real scoop that wont leave you feeling icky afterward? Check out  Alex Gibneys richly detailed  documentary: Client : The Rise and Fall of Eliot Spitzer instead. 