Jason Voorhees, one of the most iconic murderers in movie history, is an unstoppable, unkillable force of evil. But thats not as good a starting point for designing a fun game as you might think.
add a single-player story mode later this year, though the games current, initial release focuses solely on the multiplayer mode it was sold on.
That multiplayer mode doesnt seem to have a firm grasp on what it wants to be. Friday the th: The Game feels torn between its competing desires to be a horror game, a balanced, competitive and fun multiplayer experience, and a wish-fulfilling Jason Voorhees simulator.
Each match in Friday the th takes place on one of the games three maps, each modeled after a location from the films. Seven players take on the role of counselors and one is randomly selected to step into the shoes of series bad guy Jason. 
a nearly impossible series of events. Counselors can also escape the map completely if they find the correct items to repair either a car, a boat or a telephone line that can be used to call the police. The matches end when all the counselors die or escape, or the -minute time limit is reached.
While escape happens on occasion, the intention of the game is clearly to give Jason all the tools in the world to kill off the counselors. In the vast majority of matches that I played, almost all of the counselors inevitably died. 
While Jason has a wide variety of gory ways to kill counselors in Friday the th: The Game, the film series is more than the sum of its violence. The games presentation is desperate to evoke the films wherever it can, but it misses one of the series most important elements: the tone. The movies blend together horror and humor; though ultimately doomed to die, characters never lack for ridiculous things to say. At Camp Crystal Lake it was never the wrong time for a campy joke. 
Friday the th: The Game, by comparison, is nearly devoid of actual dialog. Characters look like rubber action figures held over a campfire for too long, and they cycle through a mere three or four benign exclamations when you complete an objective. Maybe the lack of chatter is meant to build tension, but all it accomplishes is sapping the onscreen personas of any kind of personality. 
It all makes for an airless world. The creative, over-the-top kills in Friday the th have always been its spark, but when the rest of the world is lifeless the violence seems out of place, an overly sadistic extravagance in an otherwise banal game. 
While Friday the th: The Game provides exciting moments on occasion, theyre infrequent and all too brief. In one match, I tried to escape in a car and narrowly swerved out of Jasons way as he teleported in front of  me. In another, I dived through a window to dodge a fatal blow from his machete at the last second  a scene that felt like it was right out of one of the movies. These intense bits felt great for a few moments, but many of the matches stretch close to the games -minute time limit
Outside of these instances of excitement, matches become agonizingly boring. After the confusion and disorientation of running around facsimiles of familiar movie sets wears off, the patterns start to stand out. 
On the counselor side, I wandered from house to house looking for the right combination of randomly spawned items, which mostly means opening an endless number of drawers. Occasionally, the monotony of searching will be broken up by a swell of music indicating that Jason is nearby. 
In theory, the confrontations between Jason and the counselors should be the high point of Friday the th: The Game, but in practice theyre often just dull and repetitive. When this unstoppable supernatural force came across me during my tedious scavenger hunts, it almost always played out the same way. I would wait in a house with the door barricaded until he started chopping the door down. When he walked inside, I would jump out of a window and move to the next house. This cycle would repeat until the player controlling Jason got bored or I ran out of cabin doors to barricade. I wanted these showdowns to end not to relieve the tension but because I got tired of doing the same thing over and over.
The relationship between different counselors oscillates somewhere between competitive and cooperative. The likelihood of finding everything I needed to escape on my own was incredibly low, but the game provided no real motivation to help my fellow counselors. Even if I managed to survive, I never had much in the way of rewards waiting.
Progression in Friday the th: The Game is measured by way of level-ups, which unlock new counselors and different versions of Jason. You also earn currency that can be spent to unlock new execution animations for Jason and randomly rolled perks for the counselors, like faster driving or longer stuns. These bonuses are noticeable, but they didnt significantly impact how I played and certainly werent enough to make the game built around them any more fun. 
The biggest problem with progression is that the XP rewards are meager for things like surviving or fighting back against Jason, or even killing counselors if you assume the role of the masked killer. The only sizable reward is gained by staying in a match until it ends, which grants  XP  which is more than almost anything else you can earn in a match combined. This means that no matter when you escape or die, you have to stay until every single counselor has met their fate or the time limit expires. 
The decision to lock this largest reward behind the end of a match is one of Friday the th: The Games most baffling choices. Because the spawns in each match are random, its possible to end up within the clutches of Jason within the first couple of minutes. If I wanted the full XP reward in these unlucky situations, that left me waiting out the rest of the game simply spectating other counselors. 
You have no idea how long  minutes can be until you have watched the last survivor stand in a closet for every excruciating second of it.
Sadly, things dont get much more exciting when playing as Jason. The first few minutes of each match felt like a flurry of activity as I searched for the first sign of counselors and tried to catch them off-guard. But as the second kill gives way to the third, its easy to fall into a rhythm of slow, steady pursuit and sudden, violent murder. The only time I had to change up my strategy was if my prey happened to get a car working. 
Friday the th: The Game offers a variety of different kill animations for Jason, each inspired by a kill from the films, but I quickly found myself sticking to the simplest ones. The more elaborate kills also feature longer animations, and I wasnt willing to watch them for a third or fourth time in a single match. Every Jason I played against tended to find one special kill that worked for them and stick to it, and I followed suit.
This constant push and pull of one sides boredom versus the others made even the shortest matches feel eternal. Sometimes when there were only one or two counselors left, and things felt particularly hopeless, the survivors simply ran toward Jason when they saw him in a desperate attempt to speed the match up. 
One consistent presence, no matter which side I was on, was the games laundry list of random bugs and mechanical inconsistencies. More than a few times I found myself trying to close a door after I entered a house with Jason in hot pursuit, only for the game to kick me back outside because I wasnt far enough in, as I closed the door on myself, putting me directly into Jasons open arms. Or I would swing at Jason with a weapon only to have my hit pass directly through his body, or play his stun animation and sound effect but still allow him to grab and execute me. I never felt like I could rely on the games most basic mechanics to work the way they were supposed to.
Friday the th: The Game is also plagued by constant crashes that seemed to happen every four or five matches. This happened consistently between several different people and groups that I played in. 
The most fun I had with Friday the th: The Game is when I played with a full premade group of eight friends, and we focused on laughs and having a good time rather than actually competing. In many cases, we ignored the core design of the game altogether, coming up with our own weird modifiers. In one match, we decided counselors couldnt escape and had to wait out the -minute time limit. In another, we decided Jason could only use each of his different types of kills once in a match leading to increasingly complex and silly traps laid for counselors as Jasons options got more limited. 
We were able to turn Friday the th: The Game into a fun sort of playground by making our own rules, but the game doesnt create much fun on its own. The majority of matches are spent doing a dull scavenger hunt as a counselor, and somehow the game has even managed to make racking up kills as Jason himself tedious. Friday the th: The Game manages to mimic the surface level of the movies well enough  their kills, their locations, their gore  but it doesnt come close to mirroring the campy spirit of the films. The result is a joyless cycle of murder broken up by long stretches of boredom.
