Features included in previous games missing from this one? Check. Long-standing issues from the last generation that linger on? You bet. Some half-baked experimentation with new concepts? Uh-huh.
WWE K will feel familiar if you've played one of the last few titles, although it changes some things up. A new "chain wrestling" system attempts to introduce some realism to the game, forcing combatants to tussle in tie-ups during the opening of a match. It's a well-intentioned idea, since much of the theatricality of real WWE matches comes from a gradual escalation of hostilities as the fighters feel each other out.
But chain wrestling in WWE K isn't fun. It's a rock-paper-scissors minigame with analog stick twirling, and it became a nuisance instead of a welcome mechanic. After a few holds, it  peters out, rather than, say, giving the wrestler who comes out on top the ability to transition directly into a new move.
WWE K's new stamina system fares much better in realistically slowing down the action in the ring. Almost everything you do drains your stamina bar, which makes it much tougher to spam your way to victory. This brings the tense, thrilling late-match sequences of real WWE action into WWE K, where exhausted fighters can barely stagger to their feet. It's terrific, forcing players to pace themselves so they won't end up winded when they need that energy the most.
The series' first new-generation entry offers significantly better character and crowd models than ever before as well. The developers did facial scans for much of the roster, which produced stunning virtual models of individuals like cover athlete John Cena.
But there's a downside: Non-scanned wrestlers look much worse by contrast. Just compare the face for present-day Triple H, scanned in with his buzz cut and close-cropped beard, with his long-haired, clean-shaven appearance in the K Showcase mode.
Aside from those new elements, WWE K matches play out much as they have for years  and the developers still haven't fixed issues that have plagued the series for ages. Collision detection between bodies and the ropes is much better, but there's no rhyme or reason to positioning. I've seen wrestlers roll over prone bodies toward the ring apron, even when they're up right against the ropes. I've seen wrestlers drag people a short distance in a seemingly random direction before performing a grapple attack, for no apparent reason.
It was always frustrating when a grapple failed because my opponent was stuck in an animation, which forced me to wait while they finished reacting to the previous attack. WWE K's poor animation blending also warps limbs and bodies unnaturally in too-quick transitions.
float into the ring on its own technically carried by an invisible Ric Flair.
nasty MyCareer bug I ran into, which crashed the game during character creation.
MyCareer is WWE K's most notable new mode. MyCareer has you create a wrestler who evolves on his journey from the WWE's training division all the way to Raw, the organization's top-tier live show.
This type of mode works in sports games because players can invest in the growth of their created athlete. That progression exists in WWE K, but it's a monotonous, repetitive slog, interrupted on too few occasions by entertaining story developments. You can't simulate any part of the mode to get past the lengthy grinding through unremarkable matches with no overarching storyline. It was  hours before something remotely interesting happened in my playthrough, when I became embroiled in a minor feud with CM Punk and Curtis Axel.
What's more, MyCareer doesn't explain itself well. There's a meter saying how much of a face or heel you are, but it's not clear if that status has any effect at all. I also couldn't figure out how to move the needle one way or the other  I started out as a face, but apparently made a heel turn at some point and never had any idea how I caused it. And even all the way at the heel end of the bar, the crowd cheered me during every arena entrance.
WWE K also revisits the well of WWE nostalgia with K Showcase, but the overall package doesn't match the corresponding modes in WWE ' or WWE K. That's largely because some of the bouts in WWE K's rivalries feel like they're there to pad out the mode. Understanding feuds requires more context than the two participants' matches. But I found myself wondering why I was spending so much time with ancillary characters like Batista and Rob Van Dam.
Video Game Championship Wrestling.
In fact, WWE K's suite of creation tools is far inferior to the expansive options traditionally available in the series. You can't create female wrestlers, and WWE K also lacks the ability to create titles, finishing moves and arenas.
Even the remaining creation options are notably pared down from previous games, with fewer choices for clothing, ring entrances and other customization. It doesn't help that the creation process is excruciatingly slow, especially on Xbox One, with load times lasting a few seconds for trying on every new tattoo or item of clothing. Numerous match types are gone too, and not just rarely used gimmicks like Inferno and "I Quit" matches  the elimination of all handicap matches is bewildering.
People looking to play specific match types online will have to contend with WWE K's baffling new interface and "background matchmaking" system. The game forces you to set preferences for wrestlers, arenas, matches and more, as opposed to matching you with others and allowing you to make those choices at that point.
WWE K does offer more than merely a better-looking version of its last-generation counterpart. But it fails to fix legacy problems, and its efforts to try something new are largely unsuccessful. This package might have been acceptable, or at least understandable, as a new-generation launch title. But one year into the new console generation, WWE K is a disappointing effort that makes for a shaky foundation going forward.
here.
