Shadow Warrior  is a relic from another time.
It harkens back to the days when games were ultraviolent and the protagonists were quippy and quick with the poop gags. Lo Wang, the primary penis joke and hero from the original  Shadow Warrior and this modern reboot, is the epitome of this s-era badass wannabe. He has access to all the guns. He gets away with punchlines like "don't mess with the Wang." He's a walking Asian stereotype. He is a joke.
This wasn't viewed as a problem in   and maybe even again in , when Flying Wild Hog rebooted the series. Despite the annoying, immature jokes, Wang was likeable, and sympathetic in his journey. He was a capable fighter and hitman who just happened to cross paths with the supernatural. Compared to the jerks that were controlling the world he was almost saintly, and the player felt bad for him. Despite his abilities, he was just a dude who liked stupid jokes. He was fun.
I mention all of this because these are the qualities Shadow Warrior  tries to replicate. But it possesses little of what made the first one so fun. Shadow Warrior  doesn't improve on the chaotic combat or systems of the last game  it doesn't feel like any kind of progression. This might have been okay in , but in , Shadow Warrior  needed to be a lot more than what it is: a repetitive, outdated, unfunny game.
After a cutscene straight from the first game  with Wang, his car, and "You Got the Touch" by Stan Bush playing on the radio  Shadow Warrior  immediately throws the player into action with nothing but a sword. The violence is extreme. Monsters have a goopy quality to them, practically melting when Wang slices them up. The metallic soldiers encountered in other levels spark and disintegrate when struck, and it was satisfying to constantly hear the clanging of my sword against their armor and to watch them fall. By the end of the game, the total body count was in the hundreds. I wouldnt have been shocked if it passed a thousand.
But the rest of the campaigns  or so hours dont live up to the fun of those first few minutes. Everything about the design choices in Shadow Warrior  feels stuck in the past and the designers didnt have the chance to update. It hit me the moment I saw the first human faces, which are misshapen and lifeless. Bodies move awkwardly, with hips that sometimes move in a way that makes it look like people are thrusting at the air. The women are almost all dressed in skintight outfits highlighting outrageous curves. This includes robots called D.O.L.L.S., walking sex objects that moan when Wang cuts them up.
Getting past the aesthetics, there are other mechanical problems. Eschewing the last games linear progression, Shadow Warrior  relies on a quest system, with a home village serving as a hub to stock up on items, talk with people, and pick up new missions. With the help of Kamiko, a mysterious ally who lives inside Wangs head for most of the game, the player can easily teleport from one location to another.
After I experienced each setting, the game became repetitive. Enemies rarely change, except that sometimes there are more of them and sometimes theyre bigger than normal. This is the main marker of progression, though players also gain access to bigger, less realistic, more powerful weapons. Wang earns skill points, which acquire new abilities and upgrade them. Slain enemies also drop upgrades, which may be equipped to enhance weapons damage or give them elemental effects.
Upgrades are one of the few ways levels are spiced up, since the user can play around with different builds to find the most effective weapons and try out different combinations in co-op mode, where up to four players can play through the missions. Its one of the few ways to get enjoyment out of the game. However, aside from the occasional boss battle that might require a different strategy, each approach is the same: point and shoot.
Upon realizing that the combat wasnt going to evolve in any meaningful way, I hoped for relief in Shadow Warrior s story. I didnt find much. Lo Wang is an ... okay protagonist. He sort of has a moral code. When one of the characters admits to raping a woman, Wang calls him a piece of shit. Wang is against fascism and rags on the people that hire him, cognizant that hes doing dirty work for dirty people in the name of cash.
That said, and I didnt think this was possible, Wang makes too many stupid jokes. In the last game, there was a balance between his immature sense of humor and moments when he had to be serious. In Shadow Warrior , Wang cant go five seconds without cracking wise, much to the annoyance of everyone around him and me. These jokes are bad and happen too frequently. There are only so many "oh, you said duty; I thought you said doodie" jokes I can take before it gets tired. Thanks to the horrible dialogue and the racist stereotyping, I found it impossible to connect with him as a player. This is tough considering that, you know, hes the main character.
Kamiko doesnt fare any better. Shes introduced as a capable woman with a scientific and archaic background, and her presence is constant. But she spends the majority of the game exasperated by Wang and serving as a plot device. She has a connection to every other character, but because she can only talk using Wangs voice, she doesnt get to interact with any of them. Shes there for exposition, to help Wang teleport, and to move the plot along. She has nothing else to show for herself.
Kamiko and Wangs back-and-forth is refreshing at first, since she often repeated what I was thinking. But she isnt given much to do other than be annoyed at him. When it actually matters, as in one moment where she withstands a particularly disturbing violation, she barely reacts. Theres no character growth either. At the end of the game, when she and Wang agree that theyre friends, it feels forced. Theres nothing in between that suggested that she was gaining a respect for him and vice versa. There was just arguing.
Any other potentially interesting story details brought into to the game are wasted. One tragic characters selfless motivations end up destroying her, but shes introduced halfway through the game, degraded when she makes a bad transphobic joke, and made a villain. Wang gets embroiled in god politics and the evil Zilla Corporation, all of which feels like filler  most of the games runtime is filled with combat and missions that have little connection to one another, which makes most of the experience useless.
Shadow Warrior  is a game about slicing and shooting through hordes of monsters and soldiers. Its about as classic a setup as the shooter genre has in that regard. A player itching to hack up some demons could do a lot worse. But everything else about Shadow Warrior  feels hollow. The characters are lifeless, the jokes arent funny, the story is worthless, and the levels are repetitive. There might be a place for a -style game in   something simple with a narrow focus that plays on many of the boring, sexist, and lazy traditions that gaming has left behind  but Shadow Warrior  isnt nearly enough.
here.
