first entry in this episodic adventure game when it launched last year. I was enamored with the games writing and its smart, spunky heroine, Zoe Castillo; I loved living in her head as I learned more about her life and picked choices that promised consequence. The games worlds of both magic and steampunk absolutely fascinated me. These are places I want to go, I often thought to myself. These are characters I want to spend time with.
But if Reborn was the infatuation stage of my ongoing relationship with Dreamfall Chapters, Rebels is the three-month itch. The honeymoon is over.
Book  kicks up shortly after the end of Book , in which I lived a "day in the life" scenario for Zoe and  in a second but equally important storyline  helped traitor Kian Alvane escape from prison. Kian, now settling into living with a group of rebels, prepares to fight against his own people.
The rebel gang itself isnt terribly inventive. Key among them is a tough, one-eyed character named Likho who is naturally distrustful of Kian, for reasons that are both quickly clear and a little cliche; and Enu, an awkward, foot-in-her-mouth kinda girl with a good heart.
Much of Kians arc in this episode revolves around the city of Marcuria which fans of previous games might remember. He weeds out a traitor in the rebel forces, takes out enemy supplies and seeks meetings with the locals. Although this is the first time in Dreamfall Chapters were given a significant chunk of time with Kian, it feels strangely threadbare. Kian is stoic  until he suddenly isnt  but his cavalier answers feel at odds with how the character is most often presented. Dreamfall Chapters dialogue choices include a mental deliberation that helps flesh out each possible option, but even Kians inner dialogue did little to enlighten me to his deeper struggles.
Worse, though, are that his missions feel game-y in a way that pulled me out of the experience. Where the previous episode masterfully folded these tasks into its gameplay, effectively turning them into pleasant excursions, Book  never made me feel like I was actively working toward a cohesive goal. Instead, it was a lot like ticking off items on a shopping list. Did I remember to blow up the harbor? Oh, good. Now, wheres that messenger boy I wanted to stalk?
This problem is also disappointingly common to Zoes arc. With a list of general tasks to complete, like visiting my now ex- boyfriend or searching for a missing girl, Book  requires an awful lot of running back and forth. Even Zoes city is a source of frustration. I learned every route in Book , but Book  gates these off in the name of police occupation, meaning youll often have to take  or find  very specific routes to get where youre going. The city itself isnt huge, but in a game so bent on giving you free will, it feels unnecessarily restrictive. These gates dont serve as a way to keep you from getting too far ahead of yourself; theyre just making it harder to move around.
The result is a lot more aimless running around, and a lot less talking or deliberating  one of the games strongest points. There are a few key choices to make in Book , and a few consequences from Book  that have already manifested themselves. As I mentioned before, Id driven Zoes boyfriend off by choosing to stand up for myself or "fight" with him in the last episode. Kians arc included an optional quest based on a character Id interacted with before.
Not all of these consequences have been fully explored, but their resolutions so far are at least clear and mostly satisfying  even the ominous promise about my culinary choices did actually come back to haunt me. The choices I made in Book  were equally interesting, and some had an obvious, immediate effect. But Rebels sparkles a little less than its predecessor, even while offering more of its winning traits   more choices, more time with the characters, more of the world.
I adored Book  of Dreamfall Chapters for its sense of discovery. So much of its world felt real and interesting to me; I played through it multiple times for the chance to live out the fantasy a little longer. Book  left me feeling exhausted, less enchanted with what I thought the game was. I never settled into its narrative in the same way I did with the first, because Book s story felt so task-driven and sterile. By the time the episodes drawn out conclusion finally arrived, it felt sudden, out of nowhere. Its not so much about the shock of what happens as the randomness of it all.
 
here.
