 NHL Stanley Cup Finals was pure hockey, a classic six-game Stanley Cup series, rejecting the long-standing cliche of a black-eyed but smiling player missing a front tooth. Every moment of the series was about skill. NHL  follows suit. 
Key to NHL  is an evolution of the skill stick, an impossibly clever means of playing digital hockey even a decade after its inception. The right analog stick mirrors a digital players actual stick, and to a striking degree. On defense,  hold down RBR, swing the right analog stick around, and the sweeping motion andor placement can block a puck or turn away an opposing player. It works, and when in conjunction with the fluidity afforded to this EA series, it feels right and natural.
EAs NHL series remains the best of the publishers sports franchises in terms of its simulation, even as its slow pace of growth becomes increasingly hard to ignore. FIFAs authenticity fluctuates, Madden plays safe, and NBA Live comes and goes. NHL stays consistent. Frustrating as off-the-puck AI can be players too frequently seem blind when the puck is loose, in motion, its hockey bliss. Its also apparent that a lack of updates and changes year-over-year is beginning to stagnate things. NHL s revisions in the back end, offering the means to play this sim, are barely apparent. 
Peeking through the Whats New menu, NHL  looks awfully lean. At the front of the menu is a training mode as produced by Team Canada. Live action tutorials recall the Sega CD, but in HD with greater production values including drone fly-bys of the ice. Basic training explains the core gameplay to all skill levels, although when trying to illustrate revamped trick play systems, the lack of visual or text feedback with failure is frustrating. 
When working, NHL s between-the-legs jukes and goal scoring showmanship upgrade the feel of playing offense. Unlike similar past offensive boosts  the limitless one-timers of NHL  or the spin move in NHL   these skill stick moves require finesse and attention. The end result is a sharp, well-considered gameplay system. Trying to be an on-ice showman is grounds for an offensive catastrophe, as in real hockey, staying true to NHL s simulation goals. These moves cannot work as catch-alls, but rather operate situationally. Puck and defender locations matter when determining which trick play to use, as does the proper set up in the offensive zone. Actually scoring on a trick play? Pure satisfaction, making the skill stick live up to its name. 
If proper goal scoring tactics and bothersome referees dishing out penalties grows old, a new -on- mode, NHL Threes, brings out NHL s arcade side. Games flow fast in this mode, with harder hits, freedom from penalties, a shrunken rink, more open ice and face-offs only between periods. Fireworks erupt from the boards when a goal is scored, a gloriously excessive touch that reminded me of EA Big, the publishers now-defunct more audacious sports label. Threes isnt a good fit for NHL s stick-based controls, but the two-button scheme from NHL  remains selectable for Threes or any other play mode. The accessible and simplified controls match the frantic pace of Threes. 
Threes is splashy fun, out of step with the series dedication to simulation style play. Surprisingly, its also thick in terms of features for a side mode. A belting PA announcer spouts off buzzwords in a mimic of NBA Jams Tim Kitzrow, unlockables stream in regularly, mascots join in to play, and special stadiums add a unique vibe. Theres more than enough to give Threes its own identity. The heavier hits capture burly NHL hockey  with far more honesty to the sport than Madden does with NFL football  in the vein of the classic AvalancheRed Wings rivalry.
Threes adds needed life, while the rest of NHL  passes by without additions. The presentation, slipping away from EA Canada in recent years, continues to slide. Between-period interludes offer nothing  no highlights, no replays, just a menu. Shots of the crowd replay the same six or so scenes. Between-play bits cut away quickly. Natural commentary from Mike Emrick and Eddie Olczyk weaves in the NHL on NBC production package, but even this bit has started to feel thin after a few years of repetitive exposure.
Madden s largely successful Longshot campaign. Given EA Vancouvers lack of adjustments here too, its as if Be a Pro is being pushed away toward irrelevance. If not a full storyline, NHL  at least needs to boost this mode in some way if its going to feel necessary. 
Its not as if the possibility of playing for a new team is enough. This being a league expansion year with the Vegas Golden Knights creates opportunity for fantasy draft fans and appropriate tweaks to accompany the new team. If the Golden Knights dont fit your style, its possible to bring in your own custom team. Outside of menu UI, underlying systems powering Franchise appear untouched after the addition of minor league squads in NHL  an addition carried over to NHL .
Ultimate Team is equally unchanged, which means its still impossible for me to see it as anything other than a cash grab. Mixing the catchiness of sports card collecting with the widening appeal of fantasy sports, unlocked players tackle various in-game challenges to upgrade skill sets or unlock better NHL stars. 
Its slow progress each year, beginning with a low-rank squad, gaining meager XP, then opening packs, hoping for a better player to add to your roster. Any work or money spent to build a team in NHL  doesnt carry over into . It is, of course, possible to push forward without splurging on  worth of in-game currency, but its a painfully sluggish process. Couple this with online play, where your competition likely has spent money to boost themselves ahead, and the urgency to spend real-world cash only grows.
Although EA Vancouver planned a three-year rejuvenation of its hockey series, NHL  seems like its on the downside of generational sports games. While Threes adds some zest and significant features, thats the only notable addition to the game. When the introduction menu pops up and Whats New offers only three choices one being a tutorial,  is not a good year.  NHL  is as always for this series more than competent, but for the first time in a while, its a wait for next year revision. 
