Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer is based on the bold presumption that work done well is its own reward.
Animal Crossing franchise: interior decoration. You have options for furniture arrangements, flooring and even some architectural flexibility at your fingertips, which you can use to create themed rooms that past series entries made impossible. More importantly: You can make them look really good, whipping up tropical beach shacks, candlelit studies and neon-hued convenience stores that, as a decorator, you can feel proud of.
Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer, but ended up feeling like I was shaping a world in which I was never invited to live.
Rather than cast you as a new resident  or, by a series of coincidences, the mayor  in a fully customizable town, Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer hires you onto Tom Nook's booming real estate firm. Your job duties on Team Nook are far-reaching: You'll work with clients to choose lots for their homes, and design both their outdoor and indoor living spaces, typically following a theme of the homeowner's choosing.
Animal Crossing: New Leaf's furniture rearrangement, you'll be pleased to learn that it's been improved in dozens of major ways, here. Every placeable item, from end tables to fruit baskets to posters, can be manipulated using the touchscreen, which represents the living space with an easily parsable floor plan. Rather than move your character around the home to drag a couch from one wall to the other, you can do it in real life, with your stylus, in a flash.
The usual furniture categories are there  New Leaf players will see familiar sets and pieces of decor appear in the catalog over time. But there are more items to tinker with in Happy Home Designer, and more places to put them. The addition of ceiling decor  from lights to ceiling fans to flags  and rugs lets you create rooms with far more character than Animal Crossing has ever allowed.
There's a zen-like satisfaction that comes with nailing a client's requested theme, which can range from straightforward all blue furniture, for instance to unorthodox a house full of eggs, including egg-shaped things and also literal cooked eggs. My favorite creations were public facilities, buildings that popped up in the town square and required a more utilitarian design philosophy. Designing an office building's conference room, complete with whiteboard, speaker phone and photocopier, was enjoyable in a way I do not understand.
But that satisfaction comes completely from within, because you're given virtually no feedback from Happy Home Designer's Rolodex of clients. Regardless of how much work you put into the feng shui of your workspace, the game's characters are going to be equally content with their new dwellings. Once, I tested a character's lack of judgment by remodeling a home I had spent a half hour designing earlier, deleting nearly everything in the house, and the client was still pleased as punch with the end result.
You can upload your creations to a global online catalog, where they can be rated by anyone who visits them using simple metrics  "Cool," "Cute" and so on. It's a really clunky system, but it's easy enough to find some inspiration from the levels uploaded by overseas players who've had the game for a while.
You also don't get paid for designing homes, but that's OK, as clients just add items to your design catalog every time you get hired onto a job. Usually they supply you with the necessary elements to fit into their theme, though, again, you're not hemmed into using only their supplied furniture. As a progression hook, it's not especially compelling  although there's certainly a drastic quality difference between the first home I ever designed and the most recent.
That can be attributed to the game's other perplexing progression system: You have to unlock basic design mechanics throughout the course of the game. Every in-game day Happy Home Designer, unlike other entries, doesn't operate in real time, you're allowed to read one chapter of the Happy Home Handbook, unlocking mechanics like ceiling decor, custom designs, furniture refurbishing, window customization and more. Those techniques are what really let your rooms come to life, and to have to wait to access them  using DS Play Coins  is frustrating.
Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer is also built around a real-life progression hook: You can collect amiibo cards to drop new clients into the world. It's admittedly pretty neat, waving a card over the New DS and getting a design request from the pictured animal. However, there are already loads of clients that come with the game, so the prospect of spending cash on booster packs of new clients isn't really appealing at all.
The more attractive function of amiibo cards is they allow you to drop characters into your buildings, where they'll interact with you, each other and the world around them. In true Animal Crossing fashion, characters have a lot of character. The dialogue is charming as ever, and changes based on where you're speaking  animals attending a show in your Concert Hall will offer different observations if you catch them dining in your Cafe.
What keeps that charm from truly sticking is what keeps the game from succeeding on the whole: There's just nothing else in the game but the designing. You amass villagers, but there's no relationships being built. You can mingle with your universally satisfied clients, but you'll never be a part of their community. You just design their homes, save your game and drive home to a house you never actually get to see.
Making homes in Animal Crossing: Happy Home Designer is enjoyable, but it's just not enough to hold up the weight of an entire game. There's just no meaningful feedback on your creations, and though your furniture catalog may expand, the whole design process becomes super repetitive with heartbreaking speed. I did some great work on the Tom Nook team, but sadly, it's a dead-end job.
here.
