With that in mind, we're trying something different with our review of The Elder Scrolls Online, bridging the gap between the two points of view in question. On one side, we have Polygon's resident Skyrim devotee, Justin McElroy. On the other? Polygon's most dedicated player of MMOs, Phil Kollar.
Phil Kollar
My fear, when I first heard about The Elder Scrolls Online, was shared by a lot of fans of the series, I'd imagine. Could an MMO game really capture the spirit of a sprawling, thrilling and often lonely open-world adventure that I'd grown to love the Elder Scrolls series for?
After some  hours of playtime and over  levels split between different characters, I can now give the concrete and unqualified answer to that most pressing question:
... Sort of?
The Elder Scrolls Online is the newest entry in the series, but as it's set in the Second Era as opposed the the Third Era seen in the first four main Elder Scrolls games it's actually the earliest, chronologically speaking.
 
At the risk of overburdening you with lore, ESO is specifically set during The Interregnum, a rocky part of Tamriel's timeline. Not only are all of the continent's factions vying for power, but a Super Bad Dude and Daedric Prince named Molag Bal is attempting to fuse his slice of Oblivion, Coldharbour, with the mortal plane.
Luckily, this opens the door for an enterprising young adventurer and several million of his closest friends to set things right.
ZeniMax Online has certainly nailed the Elder Scrolls scale. As a member of the Ebonheart Pact, I've spent nearly all my time since the official launch in Morrowind, a province in Tamriel's northeast. I feel like I've seen just a fraction of this area, which itself comprises a fraction of the whole of the content. This is a massive, massive world.
That scale also brings with it a fair amount of repetition. Though there's a ton of really beautiful geographical variety, architecture is frequently reused, providing an unnerving sense of dj vu. I'm often able to competently navigate a building I've never before entered because I recognize the layout from the three to four times I've explored that same structure before.
There's a fair amount of repetition in quests as well. In my time in Tamriel, as an example, I've encountered no fewer than three quests that required me to locate, herd or retrieve guar, a domesticated pack animal in the Elder Scrolls fiction. People of Tamriel, I'm begging you: Keep a closer eye on your guar. We adventurers have better things to do, I assure you.
There are, however, some excellent one-off quests that would be right at home in a traditional Elder Scrolls game. Slowing down to read the text for each quest anathema to many MMO players, I know frequently pays off with some surprising twists and even a few laughs.
One of my favorite recent quest tasked me with winning the approval of three demigods by solving a puzzle that activated a clockwork knight, killing said clockwork knight and then solving a murder mystery. When I'm sucked into one of these well-constructed mini-adventures I almost forget my place and feel, for a moment, like I really am the sole hope of Tamriel all the quest text keeps insisting I am.
I say "almost" because that spell is usually shattered by the unavoidable side effect of playing an MMO: All the people.
Solving a puzzle where I had to activate specific columns of light might have been cool if seven other players hadn't been madly circling around me attempting to do the same. Climactic boss battles at the end of quest lines are robbed of more than a little drama when three other players swarm my target and kill it after I've got but a few decent hits in. The remainder of that drama is dispelled completely as I watch players line up to repeat the slaughter time after time in the hopes of collecting whatever loot the enemy has to offer.
The effect is rather like riding Pirates of the Caribbean, watching animatronic Johnny Depp clunkily return to his hiding spot after you've passed so he can prepare to surprise the next boatload of tourists. And at this early stage, several quests are just broken, so you're often left staring at Johnny Depp's lifeless face as you wait for the ride to start back up again.
Before you MMO diehards skip to the comments to start dismantling my complaints, please understand: I get it. I know that you're constantly suspending disbelief as player after player extracts an identical crystal skull from the chest apparently stuffed with a limitless supply of the one-of-a-kind relics. I know the tormented ghost that you forever free from its cursed existence must immediately return to this plane so the next hero can begin the cycle again. That's how MMOs work. But it has not, to this point, been how Elder Scrolls games work.
With all the care that ZeniMax Online has taken to shove an Elder Scrolls-shaped peg into an MMO-shaped hole, it's puzzling that it hasn't made more use of instancing. Being thrown into a splinter version of the world where I'm the only adventurer is a pretty old MMO trick at this point, and more frequent use of it would have gone a long way towards capturing the spirit of the Bethesda's series.
While there's a lot of areas where Elder Scrolls Online fails to live up to current standards for the MMO genre, it actually handles player-versus-player combat better than many. The fast-paced, movement heavy combat feels more interesting and at home against other players as opposed to stiff AI-controlled enemies. And these fights get to play out on a truly epic battleground.
PvP in Elder Scrolls Online takes place in a mode called "Alliance War," which is set in the province of Cyrodiil  the same massive area where Elder Scrolls : Oblivion took place. Within Cyrodiil, the game's three different factions fight over control of, well, Elder Scrolls  ancient texts that tell the future but also cause readers to go mad. Once an Alliance War has progressed far enough, a faction can also attempt to take over the Imperial City, which rests in the middle of the zone.
Alliance War puts PvP on a scale that feels true to the Elder Scrolls series, but it also allows each individual player to feel like a vital part of the war effort. Whether you're running a stealthy scouting mission behind enemy lines, joining a massive assault on a gate or taking over farms that your side will use for resources to be build siege machines, players of all types will find plenty of tasks to perform. And unlike the player-versus-environment content, almost all of those tasks feel meaningful.
Elder Scrolls Online had a great opportunity to bring something different to the MMO genre. While the Elder Scrolls series shares the massive open world element common to MMORPGs, it also brings its own set of expectations and traditions that really could have set this game apart.
But rather than an ambitious project that blends the strengths of these two styles of role-playing game, Elder Scrolls Online settles for a much less exciting middle ground - a sloppy mix that waters down what's great about Elder Scrolls while flat-out ruining the best parts of an MMO.
In addition to the same-old string of boring tasks that makes up a huge part of questing which Justin details in his portion of this review, the game is dragged down by its open-ended approach to character development. A lot of recent MMOs have sought to expand beyond the strict, class-based limitations common to the genre, but Elder Scrolls Online really embraces its legacy here.
You begin the game by choosing one of four classes, but once you're in, you have a lot of freedom to push your character in whatever direction you want. Want your magic-using powerhouse to also wear heavy armor? Go ahead. Want your beefy dragon knight to learn how to heal allies? Yep, that's allowed.
While this freedom to take a character in any direction is intoxicating, it's also just plain toxic as the game progresses and gets more difficult. In particular, the grouping experience - you know, what sets an MMO apart from a single-player RPG - is hurt. In most MMOs, groups are made up of damage dealers along with at least one tank - someone who takes all incoming damage - and one healer, and those roles are generally determined by what class you're playing.
Elder Scrolls Online's difficult dungeons still require this setup, but since classes aren't pushed down a defined path, most players aren't going to be prepared. Almost all of my group encounters with random players ended up in dozens of time-wasting deaths as my partners realized that they should have specialized in just tanking, damage dealing or healing instead of mixing and matching a bit of everything. Unless you have friends around the same level who you trust to figure out proper skill paths, it's best to avoid group dungeons altogether.
The solo experience doesn't always fare much better. While Elder Scrolls Online's combat certainly captures the feel of a game like Skyrim - especially if played in first-person mode - that feel is squishier and less precise than what I've come to expect from MMOs. Using ranged weapons or abilities and trying to switch between multiple targets only worked for me about half of the time. It wasn't until a dozen hours into the game that I realized the reason for this: It uses a traditional MMO lock-on targeting system but just hides the lock-on.
At least I eventually figured out a reasonable workaround for Elder Scrolls Online's combat. Not so for the game's mess of an economy. While the crafting systems are robust and easier to get into than in many MMOs, the game has no traditional auction house system for buying or selling your goods. The only solution is to join a trading guild, which has a smaller pool of players and extremely limited search functionality.
All of these strange choices ostensibly serve a single purpose: encouraging community. Elder Scrolls Online wants you to make friends, to group with people who you know and can grow with, to form guilds and trading partnerships that are mutually beneficial. It's noble enough in concept, but it ignores most of the progress that the genre has made toward usability in the last five years.
It also forgets the harsh realities of playing an online game, especially one that requires a subscription fee: Not everyone has friends playing, and not everyone gets lucky enough to stumble upon a group of people in-game who have the same play style.
We approached Elder Scrolls Online as fans of the series and as MMO lovers, but it came up short from both perspectives. It's missing that spark of magic that enticed us to get lost in Skyrim or Morrowind for months, or that made us happy to fork over a monthly fee just to access our current favorite game. It seems like so much effort was put into forcibly translating Elder Scrolls' style into the genre's norms, but the payoff for that effort isn't there. Even in its best moments, Elder Scrolls Online is merely a competent traditional MMO; at its worst, it flubs even that.
The Elder Scrolls Online making the jump to consoles. The good news: It's a very faithful port that captures the experience of playing Elder Scrolls Online on PC extremely well. The bad news, at least if, like us, you weren't hooked by the PC version? Well, you're still playing Elder Scrolls Online.
Consoles were always part of the plan for Elder Scrolls Online, so this may not come as much of a shock, but abilities map remarkably well to a controller. I like the amount of direct combat control it grants compared to other MMOs, and that system feels even better with a controller in the equation. On the surface, it feels like playing any other modern Elder Scrolls game on console, and that's perhaps the biggest hurdle this port had to overcome. So, bully for that.
I'm much more mixed on the way that in-game communication is handled, which, save for a few canned messages, relies solely on voice chat. Wander into a populated area like one made for crafting and you're going to be hearing a lot of conversation and a fair amount of accidentally leaked Beyonce blaring through your speakers. You can of course turn it off or switch to a group or guild chat channel if you want a more subdued experience.
I imagine this will irritate many of you, as it's a far cry from the way most MMOs let players communicate. I'll be honest: When I left the game idling, practiced a Josh Ritter song on my guitar and realized I'd been serenading half of Skywatch, I wasn't crazy about it either. I'm also a little concerned about the loss of anonymity for those who want to roleplay as a character very different from themselves. If you're trying to coordinate a big guild chat? Well, you have my sympathies.
A side note regarding roleplaying: Elder Scrolls Online displays console usernames above characters' heads rather than character names. This move is perhaps designed to keep players on good behavior, but battling the Aldmeri Domion alongside your stalwart companion SmokezMadBluntzxxx ain't helping immersion.
On the bright side, I think the voice chat helps humanize communication, especially once you've joined a party. Communication while making your way through a dungeon is so much easier when you can shout in the moment and not have to move your hands to type. It also was a lot more convenient to be able to shout at my TV when I forgot how racial crafting styles worked and actually get some useful responses. Also, God help me, I just think it's kind of funny to hear someone get yelled at by their mom when they're trying to sell iron ingots.
What we have in Elder Scrolls Online is a very competent translation of a game that, sadly, I just don't think is all that interesting. Quests are still often very boring, far too frequently leaning on fetch quests and following slow people. The narrative of being The Chosen One is still completely undercut by the presence of so many other players. The difficulty still spikes inappropriately, especially if you've diversified your skill set too much which the game facilitates if not outright encourages.
There have been some improvements since our original review: You can now kill and rob most NPCs and build a wanted level as in other Elder Scrolls games. There's a new system that lets you improve heroes past the Level  cap. Also, the tutorial section is a lot more streamlined.
While certainly a boon for players who've lived with the game for the past year and change, these alterations didn't do much to dispel more core issues with ESO, issues that are so deep and systemic, righting them may be impossible.
One especially notable change: Elder Scrolls Online has dumped its required monthly subscription since launch. Sort of. You can now play the game and access a lot of its content with just the initial purchase price plus the cost of an Xbox Live Gold or PlayStation Plus membership, naturally.
However, there is an optional "Elder Scrolls Online Plus" subscription that provides some in-game currency Crowns to purchase items off the mostly cosmetic microtransaction store, as well as access to all of the game's downloadable add-ons. If you don't buy an ESO Plus subscription, those add-ons need to be purchased individually.
The new lack of a subscription fee benefits a fresh console audience checking the game out for the first time. There's dozens of hours you can get out of it before feeling any push to purchase add-on content. It's worth stressing, though, that if you end up playing Elder Scrolls Online long-term, you'll almost certainly still want to get signed up for that monthly fee eventually especially considering the included  percent boost to gold and XP rewards. Purely coincidentally, we're sure, the  per month fee will net you  worth of Crowns, so by a certain, terrible logic, it's basically free!
In theory, I can't say enough good things about the quality of Elder Scrolls Online's adaptation to consoles. It's a faithful, smart and almost completely comprehensive way of getting the ESO experience. But it's been over  months since I last visited Tamriel in the Second Age, and I was really saddened to see the game hasn't become any more compelling in the interim.
