When group of five stuntmen get tired of the poor plotting and overbearing direction on their sentai series, they set out to form their own studio. If the term "sentai" is unfamiliar, just think Power Rangers: Spandex-clad heroes taking on rubber suit monsters with their super-powered weapons and their skyscraper-sized mech.
With little more than a warehouse borrowed from a squad members uncle, they start filming episodes of their own show, transforming into a super team thats equally concerned with building an audience as they are bringing down the bad guy.
Primarily, youll control the spandex-clad, giant mech toting Chroma Squad as they take on their monstrous enemies in self-contained episodes. Battles are turn-based and tactical, with heroes using their powers to level hordes of grunts before as with any good episode of Power Rangers they combine their powers to destroy the big baddie.
The most interesting tactical twist is that players can spend an action to activate a "Teamwork" mode, which allows them to throw teammates vastly increasing their movement range or collaborate on an attack. For their final attack, the entire team must activate Teamwork mode next to an enemy to activate an explosive finishing move.
Occasionally, the team summons their giant robot to do battle, and that plays out in a D, turn-based fight with the occasional timed button press to defend against an oncoming attack.
None of the battles are particularly grueling, but theres an added layer of difficulty in the form of requests from the shows unseen director like "Keep all heroes standing," or "Kill final boss with a finishing move." You can ignore those commands, but I liked the challenge of trying to follow the directors lead which also netted additional fans for my show.
Those fans feed into the studio management sim thats layered on top of the action. In addition to defeating evil, youre also trying to keep the doors to your studio open. That means hiring marketing firms, upgrading cameras, buying new lights, you name it. These upgrades can lead to new fans, more money to buy weapons and armor for your team and some in-game perks like a higher chance to dodge enemy attacks.
It may read a little odd, but in practice, its a great blend. Much like the combat, managing the studio isnt an especially cerebral challenge, but its a fun way to customize the experience and to break up the action.
Customizability actually permeates almost every aspect of Chroma Squad. In addition to renaming your team and studio, you can personalize your robot, your outfits, heck, you even get to make up your own permutation of "Its Morphin Time!" Chroma Squad is basically a grown-up, incredibly robust tool for playing Power Rangers.
If you grew up with the source material, youre likely going to find yourself delighted by the whole experience, from the smartly animated pixel art to the adorable if often clunky dialog. For kids of the 's, this is undiluted nostalgia.
That said, Chroma Squad tries to coast just a bit too far on its charm. Combat gets way too easy for a good chunk of the games middle though it peaks back up right at the end, and I kept wishing the studio management aspect was a bit more robust. As it stands, the whole system basically boils down to a well camouflaged and adorably rendered skill tree. Its fun at first, but with so few repercussions for your choices, it all feels a bit straightforward the longer the game goes on.
 
There came a point at which I had so much cash and my characters were so well-outfitted I felt like the game could have played itself. I checked out a bit after that, and all the nostalgic charm in the world wouldnt have been enough to keep me engaged. The story takes some cool turns as the threats to the team start to become a bit more real, but its not enough to keep up the momentum.
Chroma Squad tries to mix things up by piling on even more systems, some of which are pleasant like the ability to respond to fan mail and some of which fall flat. In the latter case, Im thinking specifically of the poorly-realized crafting system because every game in  legally has to have a crafting system, which lets you transform the cruft you find on defeated enemies into weapons and armor. Like much of Chroma Squad, its cute  your materials in the early game are cardboard and duct tape, all befitting a cheaply-made sentai show  but its shallow enough to feel rote pretty quickly.
 But frankly its hard to be too critical of Chroma Squads faults. The whole thing is just so darn sweet and well-intentioned that its failings are less like roadblocks and more a nagging sense that this lovely, joyful thing should have been just a bit more consistently delightful than it is.
here.
