Tomb Raider  reimagined the series and its protagonist as more dramatic and emotional, though still badass. I understood the disappointment some felt at the loss of the traditional action hero in Croft, but she was now a character I found myself much more invested in.
Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light left off.
Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris isn't really what I'm looking for in the series at this point ... but it's also undeniably skilled at what it does.
Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris finds our hero on a journey to the pyramids of Egypt. She discovers an ancient temple devoted to the god Osiris, but her celebration is short-lived, as rival archaeologist Carter Bell races her inside. In a short introduction, the two adventurers delve into the ruins and inadvertently wake up Set, the evil deity responsible for Osiris' death. They're joined by two more mythological figures, Horus and Isis, as they attempt to resurrect Osiris and stop Set from destroying the world.
The unshifting perspective was especially an issue in co-op. Multiple characters bouncing around the screen makes it difficult to keep track of your own character. Rather than giving each player their own view of the action, you share a single camera that zooms out further and further as characters spread out. The camera works this way both during local and online co-op, and it has a limit to how far it will zoom out as well.
While adding players makes life more difficult in some respects, it also introduces impressive changes elsewhere. Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris is split into separate temples, which serve as individual levels connected by a small hub world. But the layout and challenges within each level actually transform based on the number of players that you have.
The temples generally divide time between simple combat, where you aim your weapons with the right analog stick while moving with the left, and the much more complex puzzles, which are the real star of the game. But adding players affects both of these elements. If you have a couple of friends with you in the Tomb of the Ferryman, more supernatural enemies will spawn, and they'll be more tenacious. Likewise, playing with more players adds an element of teamwork to the puzzles.
Likewise, I was never moved by the game's needlessly complex loot system. As you move through levels, Lara and her companions collect gems, which can then be wagered at various chests to win a random piece of gear. The more ornate the chest, the more gems it costs to open, and the better the loot you'll win from it.
While the idea of an action-RPG-style loot system bolted on top of a Tomb Raider game may sound appealing, most of Lara's upgrades just aren't very interesting. You can equip amulets that affect her weapon fire and rings that give her defense boosts or increase the radius of her bombs, but there wasn't enough variation within these options to keep me eagerly opening chests.
Given issues like the poor loot system and the occasionally awful camera, it's amazing how quickly and thoroughly Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris turned me around from my initial lukewarm feelings. It's not going to stick in my mind the way 's Tomb Raider has, but Crystal Dynamics has built a tidy, pleasant throwback to the more simple adventures of Lara's past.
here.
