 
Editor's Note: Destiny has been repeatedly called ... well, it depends on who you ask. Bungie has used terminology from the MMO space to describe their new franchise, but has said it's not an MMO. Meanwhile, fans seem most comfortable calling it an MMO, despite Destiny's clear roots in Bungie's history as a developer of shooters. 
After spending dozens of hours across multiple editors, we're not sure what you'd call it either. But we do know that there are many people interested in Destiny for different reasons. Some fans want the next shooter from the creators of Halo. Some players want a new MMO adventure to lose themselves within. With that in mind, similar to our Elder Scrolls Online review, our Destiny review is a little bit different, employing a pair of writers coming to the game from two somewhat different perspectives. 
I'm Polygon's Reviews Editor, Arthur Gies. I'm a fan of Bungie's work with Halo and am one of the most shooter-oriented players on staff, and I also enjoy action RPGs like the Diablo series. Meanwhile, Polygon's Deputy Reviews Editor Phil Kollar has poured thousands of hours into a diverse array of MMOs over the last decade-plus, in addition to enjoying the Halo series. Surprisingly, we came to some very similar conclusions on Destiny. 
 
As Destiny begins, it's practically aching from all the potential it carries. There's all the hallmarks of epic sci-fi, with the human race under fire and almost extinct from an alien threat, protected in turn by a mysterious alien savior called the Traveler. As Destiny's music builds and swells and the tiny robotic Ghost voiced by Game of Thrones' Peter Dinklage raises you literally from the dead, there's a magic present that Bungie hasn't executed on so well since the original Halo's second mission.
It's not just the production values, though those are evident immediately  Destiny doesn't look real, but rather, it looks like painted concept art, meticulously assembled and presented to you at all times. Instead, it's the suggestion, through Destiny' concept, its soundtrack and its visual presentation, that Destiny is big. That there's a whole universe out there to explore, a reality worth discovering.
There isn't, though.
In the first mission of Destiny, its functional tutorial, you find a weapon, and you shoot the alien life around you in the ruins of Russia. It turns out, that's just about all you're ever going to do. Sometimes you walk up to points in the game world and hold "XSquare" and wait for something to happen, shooting more enemies all the while.  And that "wait for something to happen" is, without fail, Ghost shining a light on something for a while, occasionally interjecting some truly dismal dialogue.
This could describe plenty of games, but there's an art to disguising the very basic systems at play in most games, to making them seem to have more at stake than waiting for another door to open or waves of enemies to stop coming. I'm not sure where that art went here, but it's absent regardless. Destiny feels like a series of waiting rooms, where enemies to shoot are the magazines you're expected to read, except you had goddamned better finish that issue of Us Weekly before you're allowed to move on.
This didn't have to be a problem. Destiny's basic mechanics and controls  movement, jumping, shooting, and melee combat  are sound. In fact, Destiny might have the most fun melee attack I've played in a shooter in farther-back-than-recent memory. The act of firing and aiming while navigating environments is fine, and it could be the basis for a great shooter. It could be, that is, if not for the underwhelming encounters that define Destiny from start to finish.
Halo fans with expectations set in that series' genre-leading enemy AI and combat scenarios should disabuse themselves of that baggage. Enemies in Destiny are laid out more like the mobs you might find in an MMO, with fairly simple AI. There are four different enemy factions, and they each have different quirks, which is good. But they all fall into similar patterns. Some enemies rush you suicidally, some will sit in cover and take potshots at you, and some will float in the air. And once you've fought a faction once, there's not really any surprises to speak of. Fights don't unfold differently over the course of each planet once every unit type is involved. Some of them just take longer.
"Longer" would be polite here, by the way. Destiny's combat most resembles the MMO genre with its bosses, who are, if you'll pardon the cliche, bullet sponges that take entirely too long to kill. If you were wondering, I set this "too long" threshold at  minutes  and Destiny routinely demands  to  minutes of constant shooting at a boss to kill it.
The punitive respawn system means it's a comparatively simple thing for your entire fireteam to get eradicated, often after shooting at a boss for upwards of  minutes. This forces you to start the whole thing over again.
These fights are not fun. They are not rewarding. They do not make any sense, and if there's a trick to beating them more expediently, Destiny is criminally uninterested in communicating that information. Beating these bosses rarely felt like the fist-pumping triumph I imagine someone thought they might be. Instead, my teammates and I were relieved that it was over.
And ultimately, this is all that Destiny is. Boiled down to its essence, Destiny isn't like other MMOs, because shooting is all it does. There are no character relationships to explore, no crafting to speak of. There's no monuments to build or spaces to make your mark on. In fact, there's not even much variety to speak of  each environment in the game feels small, and playing just through the campaign missions, you'll see the same parts of them multiple times. You'll spend literal hours retreading the same ground, shooting the same mobs.
With so little new to see or do, there's even more pressure on Destiny's building blocks to get it right. And they just aren't capable of holding everything up. Destiny's gameplay is enough to make for an engaging if not particularly memorable beginning, but it runs out of substantive things to do or say well before you hit the level  "soft cap."
Destiny's competitive component takes place in the Crucible  a special selectable playlist that includes control point, team deathmatch and free-for-all modes taking place in four competitive maps. Eds note: Activision has contacted us to correct this statement. There are  multiplayer maps   in the PS and PS versions  across five environments. There are four always-active playlists: Control, Clash, Rumble and Skirmish. We regret the error, but this does not affect our appraisal of Destiny or its multiplayer after approximately eight hours of play between two reviewers.
If there's any place to talk of Bungie's legacy, it would be here. Three modes and just four multiplayer environments feels like an afterthought, especially in comparison to the Halo series' ever-swelling roster of locations. But the number of maps isn't the problem.
Instead, the Crucible's biggest failing is its reliance on your character's progression to power you through against other players. While damage numbers for weapons are evened out, you remain at the mercy of other players' weapon types and skills, especially against players who find the motivation to grind on beyond level .
You're also at the mercy of class abilities that were tuned to look cool in cooperative play rather than balanced for multiplayer. This became most obvious the second or third time a Titan player's air-stomp splash damage killed everything in a six-foot radius. The care and refinement that defined Bungie's previous multiplayer efforts just doesn't seem present.
That said, the Crucible can be a fast track for experience, and forced to choose between running another patrol or jumping into an unbalanced v multiplayer match for  minutes, you might pick the latter.
It's impossible to pinpoint an exact moment where Destiny broke my heart. The -plus hours I've spent in the game so far have been a slow rollout of small disappointments, each adding up to a growing sense of the emptiness at Destiny's core.
has insisted from the start that Destiny is not a massively multiplayer game, it looks from the outside like so many MMORPGs that I've sunk years of my life into. The game is structured around a "campaign" of story-based missions, but the light narrative is little more than an excuse  a series of strung-together fetch quests providing the tiniest motivation to fight more enemies, grind more experience points and hopefully find more loot.
That plot  or lack thereof  is where I first noticed Destiny's potential and its failure to live up to it. The universe Bungie has created here operates on a simple premise: Humanity alongside a few other friendly races explored and populated huge swaths of the known universe during a Golden Age, until some mysterious force known as "the Darkness" halted that progress and pushed back. Humanity is now down to one thriving city, and all that remains elsewhere is ruins and wreckage.
Bungie has crafted an astoundingly beautiful and detailed series of ruined worlds to support that fiction, but Destiny seems scared of taking players to the most interesting parts. That devastated city you can see in the skyline? It's going to remain a background fixture while you're stuck running through bland, look-alike factories and "warbases" over and over.
The most exciting part of running through these generic spaces is often stumbling across other players, who will sometimes populate the same area as you while you're on a mission. You'll never see more than a handful at a time, and the game rarely gives you any reason to actually interact with these players, but it can be fun to temporarily team up to take down a group of enemies.
The awful, jargon-heavy dialogue doesn't provide enough context to flesh out these been-there, done-that video game locales. In full, there's probably around eight to  hours of story content in Destiny, but enough factions, nonsense sci-fi terminology and universe-spanning, epic quests to fill out  hours. The result is a plot that feels rushed even though it never seems to go anywhere.
Granted, games of Destiny's type  whether you view it as a full-fledged MMO or just an online-centric shooter  rarely feature great narrative. It's usually a depth and breadth of content that keeps players engaged and coming back for months and years.
Destiny doesn't have that either.
For example, there are only three player classes to choose from  Hunter, Titan and Warlock. That number seemed small from the outset, and it felt even tinier when I realized that the classes use the same weapons and much of the same armor. Their primary differences lie in skill trees, which grow alongside your level, eventually splitting into two distinct sub-classes for each initial starting class. The distinctions between the Voidwalker Warlock's Nova Bomb ability and the Striker Titan's Fist of Havoc end up being important, as do some stat differences, but I wish there was more to individualize the classes sooner.
Beyond the brief, unsatisfying story missions, Destiny offers "strikes," which are sort of comparable to dungeons in an MMO. You're forced into a group of three  the game will match you up with other players if you don't have a full group already  and fight across a level, taking on one or two giant bosses as you go.
It's a tried-and-true formula with one problem: Most of those boss encounters are terrible. With very few exceptions, boss enemies take an absurd amount of damage and require no real strategy beyond avoiding their massive one-hit-kill shots. I didn't mind these challenges being bullet sponges, but I wanted to do something more interesting than dodging blasts and watching out for near-endlessly respawning waves of lesser enemies during the fight.
I endured the tedious slog of these strikes over and over but rarely felt rewarded for my time. Whether you're playing in story missions or strikes, Destiny is miserly with loot drops. A strike guarantees at least one drop if you successfully complete it; keep your fingers crossed that it's an actual upgrade in exchange for the  minutes to an hour that one of these missions can take.
Even in the rare cases where I found myself enjoying strike missions, I was disappointed in how few are available at launch. But Destiny's lack of content is most apparent in its current, banal endgame. When you hit the level cap of , you're informed that you can continue climbing in level by finding and upgrading rare, "legendary" armor and weapons. You do this by earning drops or special currency to buy gear directly in "strike playlist," a mode that places you into one of the existing strikes at random.
Bungie expects players to repeat these few pieces of content over and over for the mere chance at a worthwhile upgrade. I recognize that plenty of games build successful, long-lasting communities out of endgame repetition  including lots of games I love. But they tend toward less stinginess with loot and generally have a lot more content at launch to pull from.
In addition to what's currently offered, Bungie will be opening Destiny's first "raid"  a large-group, friends-only challenge  next week. I'm planning to jump in and check it out, and we'll update the review if it has a major impact on my feelings. But a single new raid isn't going to solve the severe problem the game has regarding its limited amount of dull, overused content.
Let's wipe away Bungie's legacy with Halo, which put them on top of the world and in a position to make a game they've said they always wanted to make for ages. We'll step back from the whispers of giant budgets, of corporate politics. For now, Destiny is just another game.
As just another game, Destiny is a confusing combination of often at-odds elements  it presents itself as ambitious, almost boastful, while seeming strangely safe and reserved. It wants to eat its cake as a shooter, and have the longevity of an MMO  but it lacks the combat sophistication of the former, and the deep well of content native to the latter.
Destiny .." We spent the last two weeks starting a character from scratch to experience how the game plays in its new form.
The biggest changes inDestiny . come from how the game presents long-term and moment-to-moment goals to players. There is now a questing system in the game, similar to MMOs, where you pick tasks from characters in the hub city and then go out into PvE or PvP encounters to complete them.
These quests push players through the story that already existed, but they also provide good motivation for running missions multiple times, doing strikes and patrols and spending time in PvP. While the core content of Destiny  and our issues with that content  have not changed, the game does a much better job of motivating continued play. It helps that there's a constant drip feed of solid quest rewards as well, so players aren't quite as handcuffed by Destiny's notoriously stingy random drops.
The Dark Below DLC packs, quests from those will now be tangled together with main story progress in a way that leads to a more varied and satisfying overall campaign experience.
 
Destiny's unnecessarily complicated leveling system.  Without purchasing The Taken King, the level cap is now set at . The previously confusing "light level" system is now a simple number modifier based off of the total power of your currently equipped gear.
These seem like minor changes in the grand scheme of things, but they allow for a game where leveling is faster, where the pacing is better, and where even incremental gear upgrades feel better and more frequent.
have reported frustration that core content they got used to over the past year is no longer available. Weekly heroics and nightfalls are now gated to players at the new level  cap that opens up when you've purchased the expansion, and the most popular PvP playlists are now expansion-only.
In some ways this is standard for massively multiplayer games. But for a title that has continued to awkwardly straddle the line between MMO and more traditional shooter  and with a fanbase largely not used to the former  it has led to some frustration.
Destiny, in its . update form, still suffers because its core hasn't changed. It still suffers from an intriguing universe wasted on bad writing and a go-nowhere story. It still has too many missions that fall back on fighting wave after wave of enemies with no real motivation. However, . is a big step forward nonetheless. Destiny isn't a great game yet, but the framework for potential future greatness is now much more solidly in place.
