Tacoma is one that subverts these ideas to paint space as something hopeful, even in its quietude and potential catastrophes. Thats a difficult task, and one that it doesnt always succeed at, but its an often admirable one all the same. 
Gone Home, a breakthrough for the narrative indie game genre, Fullbright returns to familiar thematic territory. But where Gone Home was a quiet individuals journey, Tacoma is that of several people, and much chattier, even livelier, for it. Its not just a single short, contained story; its multiple concurrent ones. More than just stories, though, Tacoma is about perspectives  and this is where I found the game both fascinating and flawed.
The overarching plot is set in the year , as a space contractor named Amy is sent to investigate the abandoned space station Tacoma. The utter emptiness of the place would be disquieting, were it not for Amys task: Comb through the various sections of Tacoma, recovering data and reconstructing what led to its crew taking their leave. With help from some futuristic space technology, Amy is able to literally retrace the steps taken and conversations had by the long-gone team, ranging from anywhere between  hours ago and a year prior; shes a voyeur looking in a not-too-distant past. 
This premise means theres not as much silence as one would expect from a vacant space station. Theres plenty of chatter to be heard from the recreated wireframe Tacoma staffers who wander the halls and the AI system that worked with them, as well as the occasional squeaks from Amys own artificial companion. And all of this dialogue makes up the core gameplay of Tacoma  its how the story unfolds, with conversations happening at once, all over the place. Amys tech allows her to rewind and replay crucial moments from different angles, cobbling together a full picture of how and why the crew left. Some of them are incomplete; others are perhaps inscrutable. But each one helps to reconstruct the stations history.
This is the games deepest mechanic, but it can be an obtuse one. As I wandered through Tacoma, I had a vague sense of where to go, who to talk to, what information I needed to pick up. My interactions  if we can call them that  with the crew were at first purpose-driven, not introspective. I tuned into the first crew member I saw to get a sense of what events caused them all to vacate the station, and then trudged along into another room. When two crew members talked, I listened for the hints of what I needed to know about the station, vagaries that were often buried between other comments. 
But Tacoma works best when experienced as a story, not a plot. Rewinding and re-evaluating every scene is key, as it can transform the game from a straightforward question-and-answer experience to a more intriguingly ambiguous one. At certain points in each scene, the option to read over a selection of a characters personal files comes up. These fill in the backstories for the crews strange comments, deep sighs or sudden anxieties in their external dialogue. If I found the dialogue to be puzzling or dull, I could trust that a chat log or an email that I had the chance to look at later on in the scene would be of much more use to me in terms of really engaging with the crews plight.
Its imperative to explore the background information instead of just homing in on the rich, omnipresent conversation scenes  however, this was never made explicitly clear. Amys ability to rewind scenarios manifests as a playback bar at the bottom of the screen. Through color-coded pop-ups, this bar indicates who to look for and when; thats how I knew I could open up the characters augmented reality desktops and start reading through them. Yet it was just as easy for me to carry on through a scene without ever attending to these small context clues as it was to rewind a scene all the way to the beginning, just to see it from another point of view. I often felt like one characters storyline was satisfying enough for me to feel ready to move on from an area. 
To ignore these pop-ups is to miss out on the real meat of the game. But it could sometimes be a chore to locate who those pop-ups were pointing to, especially when some lengthy cutscenes ended up divulging such little info. The games constrained setting, mixed with a limited amount of sights to see, meant that cutscenes aside, there wasnt always much I had a strong desire to check out. 
There were plenty of bathrooms to interact with, along with the occasional gym locker and under-bed drawer, but not a ton else when it came to character building. The colorful pop-ups make all the difference, though, as they almost invisibly deepen an otherwise simple plot. Its possible to return to them, and some of them are impossible to miss. But I didnt always want to catch them all during my first lap around an area, and so Id later find out that I didnt learn as much about a situation as I thought I did.
Even when I took the time to read the notes and files that corresponded with every pop-up, though, I didnt always feel that I had a more complete story. Tacoma is a game that kept me at arms length  I had to chip away at those files, characters personal quarters and even their slightest movements to eke out the bits that could emotionally engage me. This took some time, and it only sometimes paid off. 
Pop-up-denoted intimate moments for some characters left strong impressions: I listened in on the crews botanist, for example, as he talked on the phone with his son in a memorable scene. That call became even more impactful when I gained access to his mementos, which included a family photo and an email about why he couldnt quit his risky job at the Tacoma station. 
Every member of the wonderfully diverse cast  racially, ethnically and in terms of sexual orientation  contributed something unique to the story, and its those details that stayed with me. But not every moment was so affecting; many characters logs remained ambiguous and hardly resonated. 
As I unknowingly approached Tacomas ending, I found myself in want of more payoff for everyone, and in all respects. The game bucked the shocking space-set conclusion for something more uplifting, yet the ending came at a time when I felt I still wanted to invest in the characters. I still wasnt quite rooting for them by the time their stories ended, although I hoped that I would. I just never got the amount of time that I wanted in order to do so, as the conclusion barreled toward me, wrapping up the most obvious loose ends.
As in other narrative adventure games, I expected that my desire to understand Tacomas characters better would be satisfied with another, even more detail-oriented playthrough. The Tacoma station only offers so much to look at and sift through, however. The finer details could often be worth revisiting, but these came few and far between. Quiet moments moved me most, not the dialogue-heavy ones that make up much more of the game.
I continue to think of Tacoma as a story first, but its more than that, clearly: Its an interactive experience, and that plays for and against it. The story is built out of the playback mechanic, which gives birth to the subtler suggestions of whats really going on with this station. But the playback system means theres a lot of talking to listen to, and a lot of wireframes to stare at. For a game about an abandoned space station, Tacoma gave me plenty of company. But the moments where I had to reckon with being alone in space were the ones that stuck with me.
