Yakuza Kiwami benefits tremendously from the games that came before and technically after it, but that doesnt mean it surpasses them.
Yakuza , because they bleed into and reflect each other so much.
But this metamorphosis of a niche classic hasnt happened smoothly or painlessly. With its commitment to simultaneously preserve the old and squeeze in the new come some noticeable inconsistencies not to mention familiar shortcomings. My enjoyment of Kiwami often hinged on just how willing I was to overlook those problems.
Kiryu Kazuma, the series most prominent protagonist, is no longer the nave young man he was in the late s. Life and also prison has hardened him somewhat, and the same can be said for those around him. If Yakuza  is the story of young men finding their places in society, then Yakuza Kiwami is the story of patriarchs and would-be patriarchs finding theirs. 
Things kick off with a true throwback: the abilitease. Before finding himself behind bars, Kiryu is at peak performance. Hes essentially come fresh off of someones  percent save of Yakuza , with every skill mastered and every move learned, tearing through his foes as if theyre wet paper. But as he spends  years in jail for the alleged murder of the Dojima family patriarch, these skills atrophy. Kiryu is back at square one, relearning his abilities and simultaneously trying to take care of a lost child and unraveling all thats happened in the lives of his friends and family during his absence. 
Also, he has to figure out how to use a cellphone, and all the schoolgirls are wearing those huge baggy socks that they have to glue on because its . How do you feel about singing Eurobeat remixes at karaoke? Because I feel great about it.
But lets be honest: Kiryu is going to spend more time punching people than singing. And fighting is one of many things that Kiwami has modernized rather than relying on Yakuzas original systems. 
 A previous version of this review stated that you could only access weapons by switching into the Dragon of Dojima fighting style. This is incorrect, and the review has been edited to reflect this.
Kiwami keeps the more recent branching ability tree structure rather than returning to the system present in the original game. Fighting, completing substories and even eating at restaurants all grant experience that can be exchanged for nodes in three of the ability trees. However, Dragon of Dojima tree upgrades can only be unlocked after meeting conditions, either with Kiryus trainer or through the new and much-publicized Majima Everywhere system that has the leopard-printed fan-favorite character leaping out at Kiryu whenever he least suspects it. Access to Majima Everywhere is loosely tied to story progress, hence why it takes quite a while to get the Dragon of Dojima style into anything resembling a useful form.
That said, Majima Everywhere impacts more than Kiryus abilities. Fights with Majima happen with stark regularity and are often unavoidable, and they risk dramatically whittling down Kiryus health and stock of healing items while hes running around the city. But despite his own ever-multiplying health bar, Majima battles turned out to be some of the easier boss encounters in the game, if only because it was easy to read his moves from the time I spent playing as him in Yakuza . When I saw him kicking into one of my favorite Slugger style combos, for instance, I knew immediately to get out of his way rather than try to block it. Without this advance knowledge from a previous game, however, I could see myself getting frustrated with these seemingly endless fights.
In spite of the over-the-top jokiness of it all, Majima Everywhere is actually a very good example of how Kiwami aims to bridge the gap between itself and Yakuza . As the pair interact, they share bits and pieces of their lives with each other. Scattered nods to the prequel are placed all throughout Kiwami, but they are particularly dense when these two are talking between bouts. Majimas constant intervention feels a little more ingrained in the story, providing some character depth that the original game lacked.
That said, the fact that Majima was part of the first games story as well makes for some occasionally disjointed moments. It sometimes feels as if core-plot Majima and street-stalking Majima are two different characters doing completely different things at any given time, with one acting like its a pleasant surprise to see Kiryu while the other may have fought him mere moments ago. Majimas an eccentric figure, so this doesnt stand out as much as it might have with a slightly more mellow character in his place, but it is one of Kiwamis more visible seams.
Unfortunately, thats true of a lot of the storytelling Kiwami does. Original story scenes are often recreated shot for shot, complete with some intensely mid-s camera movements and action shots that, much like a pair of those iconic loose socks, have not aged well. 
These moments werent exhilarating the way I had come to expect of Yakuza. Some of them were downright laughable, steeped in exactly the kind of utterly rote, try-hard attempts at action-hero coolness that are largely absent from the more recent entries in the series. The story itself suffers from similar issues, grasping at being a badass, gritty tour of Kamurochos underbelly while leaving many of the actual details of its plot half-formed or tenuously connected.
That may not have been as noticeable if not for the inclusion of an entirely new facet to the plot that is absolutely up to the series current dramatic standards. Flashbacks chronicling the downfall of Nishiki  Kiryus longtime friend turned smirking Yakuza bigshot  punctuate every chapter. Theyre brand new to Kiwami, and they are without a doubt the soul of the game. 
One of my favorite activities in this series has to be speaking with hostesses and club girls, largely because of the expressiveness on their faces as they speak. Theyre emotive in a way that sets them apart from other characters in the game or, indeed, in most games. And Nishikis story weaponizes all that fascinating, near-hypnotic emotiveness. 
Every moment of grief, of hurt, of anger gets written on his face, in the curl of a lip or the twitch of an eye. Paired with some stellar voice acting, these scenes are some of my favorite cinematic moments in any game, not just the Yakuza series. It speaks to their effectiveness that I feel that strongly even while much of Nishikis storyline verges on cheap. For instance, hes largely motivated by a sick sister who is never once shown, despite being brought up in the majority of his scenes. Even so, I found this virtual performance so powerful that I didnt get hung up on those underlying flaws. Youre watching a man be torn apart from the inside, in essence, with every bit of anger and heartache laid bare in expressions. Flawed as it may be, this adds more to Kiwami as a whole than I would have ever thought a dozen or so cutscenes would.
Kiwami is in many ways a collection of highs and lows with very little in between. Thats clear in its storytelling, and thats also clear in the way it handles LGBTQ people. 
One of my biggest complaints about Yakuza  was its handling of the Pleasure King, a character that reads as a trans stereotype and is initially introduced as Effeminate Man. So was I surprised to see that Kiwami pits Kiryu against multiple trans characters? No, but that doesnt mean I wasnt disappointed.
More often than not, Kiryus dialogue in his encounters with LGBTQ characters is fine. Hes clearly accepting of the individual, if not the individuals actions in trying to scam him or whatever excuse the game provides for them to fight. Their existence doesnt disgust or amuse him. I adore many of the conversations that Kiryu can have with Rina, a gay hostess who banters comfortably with him about everything from her exes to Japanese adoption laws for same-sex couples. Its not even a spoiler that shes gay  its one of the first things she explains about herself, and Kiryu accepts the fact without leaning too hard into any confusion comedy or straight-dude titillation on the subject. Shes not treated like a red herring or a waste of Kiryus time; shes just one more person in the city that he gets to know.
But then I started meeting and fighting transgender characters, as well as a couple of male characters in drag. Its the tone of these encounters that gets in the way of whatever accepting words might be framing them. The butt of the joke remains that players are supposed to see something about this character as incorrect: a pretty woman with a deep voice or a strange laugh, a hostess with facial hair and broad shoulders. In case its not clear how the game expects players to read these scenarios, the comedy substory music fades in. 
 situation that a game in which Im playing as a large, strong cis dude could give me to make beating a trans person feel OK. None. Thats the limit of trying to do a fundamentally bad joke right.
In my eyes, the real power of the Yakuza series is in how it takes what would otherwise be a standard action spectacle and humanizes it. It leads the audience to laugh with its characters, to cry with them, to seethe with them, to feel pride and excitement when they pull off something cool, and to utterly deflate when something goes awry. The pathos of Nishikis side of the story could almost carry this game on its own because of that power. These are games where the big strong guys leap through windows but also sob openly and often, and I love them for that. I just wish the series would extend that same humanizing touch to everyone whos a part of it, and let go of its favorite easy punchlines once and for all.
Yakuza Kiwami makes it clear just how far the series has come, and just how far it still has to go. Its keenly designed to bring newly minted Yakuza fans more firmly into the fold by providing all the contemporary comforts they might expect, while also giving longtime fans more to chew on than a shot-for-shot remake ever would have. Its a patchwork, for better and for worse, and as much as I enjoyed my time with it, theres no denying that some of those patches are looking more tired than others.
