The answer is yes, although not without a few struggles along the way.
Splatoon finds some of its success by emulating the structure and rhythm of classic Nintendo franchises like Mario. But it also proves that Nintendo can capably pull off things its never really done well before  shooter gameplay, a multiplayer focus, gear and progression and more. Some of my expectations for a shooter were left unfulfilled, but simple, clever game design of the kind that Nintendo has always excelled at elevates Splatoon above its faults.
Simplicity isnt evident from the outset; Splatoons premise is bizarre. Players begin by creating a character  another rarity for Nintendo, but one it handles well, with male and female avatars available in a variety of skin tones. After that, the created character is thrown into the strange city of Inkopolis, a world where the human-esque residents can transform into squids and where electricity is provided by creatures known as "zapfish."
Before players have a chance to get their bearings, its revealed that zapfish are being kidnapped by a mysterious force known as the "Octarians." This sets up a single-player campaign of -some standalone levels, each containing a single zapfish to be rescued. Rescuing those zapfish involves mastering Splatoons main gameplay hook: shooting inkguns. Every action in the game, from destroying enemies to interacting with pieces of the level, is accomplished by spraying colorful ink everywhere.
And, as you might expect from Nintendo, that core gameplay feels fantastic  once youve turned off the miserable motion controls, at least. That option is on by default, and caused me to not enjoy my initial time with Splatoon. Once I realized I could go into the options menu and swap to a more traditional shooter control layout, I discovered a much better game.
Nintendo has taken traditional shooter controls and melded them with a unique type of platforming, where your character can transform into a squid and disappear into the very paint youve spread across the ground. This provides endless options for traversing the environment, hiding from sight and ambushing unsuspecting foes, tactics that work in both multiplayer and single-player. It feels fast and frantic in the best way.
I was pleasantly surprised by just how strong Splatoons single-player offering is despite Nintendo downplaying it as secondary to the multiplayer. Like all of Nintendos best work, Splatoons single-player levels trade in taking a single idea each and expanding on it to its most logical, polished conclusion. For example, in one early level, I was introduced to the concept of "sponges"  small square platforms that would expand into much larger blocks when shot with my ink, but contract when hit by enemy shots.
At first, I ambled across one or two sponges at a time with only a couple of enemies here and there to worry about. Ten minutes later, by the levels conclusion, I bounced across an extended series of sponge platforms resting in mid-air, dodging a barrage of ink bullets from a whole armada of bad guys. Each level follows this perfect pattern: Introduce a concept, get you used to it, then ratchet up the stakes bit by bit until youre an expert.
That pattern extends to Splatoons boss battles as well. Each of these bigger enemies teases you with a repetition of attacks that you must memorize before gaining access to its weak point. After you hit it, the attacks become more complicated, rinse and repeat. This culminates in an incredible, lengthy final boss fight that tested everything Id learned over the course of the whole game.
Splatoons short single-player campaign does repeat a few ideas, and those end up making for the weakest levels in the game. Least interesting are the arena levels, which use the multiplayer maps and special enemies designed to act like real albeit bad human opponents. These challenges only make up a small number of the overall levels, but they felt like unnecessary and weak preparation for the multiplayer mode.
doesnt have voice chat at all. Given the general simplicity of of the game and your goals, I never had a problem with this, but as players get into ranked mode and try to work as a team, it could become more of an issue.
With a small pool of reviewers and internal Nintendo employees playing during the review process, we had a limited opportunity to see how well the games matchmaking works and how easy it is to invite friends into your games. We will test those features more in the launch version of Splatoon and include further information when we lift the provisional tag off of the review if they significantly impact our feelings on the game.
Of course part of whats so amazing about Splatoons multiplayer is that it doesnt really require much preparation. The main multiplayer mode  and the only one available for the first ten levels of player progression  is called turf wars. In this team-based mode, you can "kill" members of the opposite team by shooting them full of paint, but unlike in many other online shooters, killing isnt the goal.
Instead, turf wars challenges your team to paint as much of the map as possible with your color. Sometimes this means going straight after the enemy team, but other times it means concentrating on parts of the map you know theyre forgetting about, assisting teammates from afar or just plain trying to stay alive to avoid a respawn timer between deaths.
The unique objective of turf wars forced me to strategize in a way thats totally different from other online shooters. The four-on-four matches can often end up lopsided  close games were particularly fun, but it was far more common for the winning team to have anywhere from  to  percent of the map covered. But matches are also so short that even when I was on the losing side, I didnt feel like my time had been wasted.
Splatoon hopes to keep players interested with a progression system, and so far its enough to keep pulling me back. A level-up system lets you brag to others about how long youve played, but it also unlocks a ranked mode and new gear to purchase with coins earned from performing well online.
Beyond the trusty splattershot  a machine-gun-style inkgun used in the single-player  multiplayer contains several new weapons to get acquainted with, such as a long-range rifle that requires charging shots and the splat roller, a giant paint roller that is one of the most unique shooter weapons Ive used in ages. Each weapon comes with its own type of bomb and special ability, and while I cant say Ive completely figured out all of them  I failed particularly hard with the splat charger  I found each interesting and fun to use in its own right.
You can also dress your Splatoon character up in a variety of hats, shirts and shoes. Each piece of gear levels up apart from your character level, unlocking passive bonuses such as faster respawn time, slower ink drain or more damage per shot. That might annoy players who want to dress based on looks alone, but the amount of customization and options to tailor the gameplay here seem worth that tradeoff.
The most controversial element of Splatoons multiplayer is likely to be its small number of maps. The game hides this problem to some degree by having a rotating selection of playable maps each day. That is to say: On any one day that you log in, youll only be able to play two maps in regular multiplayer and two maps in ranked multiplayer. Its an interesting setup but likely to be frustrating to anyone whos played other, more open online games. And even with the limited options, I found it impossible to ignore the lack of maps available and the way that each of the maps ends up looking very similar  even before theyre covered in ink, I mean.
In the initial weeks of play, though, I was so taken with the uniqueness of Splatoon as to not be bothered by these issues. Nintendo has promised new maps, modes, weapons and clothes to be added to the game post-launch. As of right now, its hard to tell if Splatoons multiplayer will be able to hold the attention of a community for longer than a few weeks. A lot is going to depend on how aggressively Nintendo builds on the existing game and for what price.
As of launch, though, Splatoon has enough going for it between the single-player and multiplayer to keep me happy. Nintendo has built two separate gameplay tracks that use the same mechanic yet feel discrete. Theyre both a ton of fun, and they both have some obvious areas ripe for improvement. I cant say whether Splatoon will become the next big franchise for Nintendo, with sequels every generation and spin-offs and endless fanboy buzz. But after this strong debut, it certainly deserves some attention.
Note: Splatoon was reviewed using special retail reviewable code provided by Nintendo that runs on separate servers from the final release. While we had lots of time with the multiplayer, we were not able to test it in the same environment as the final retail release, and we were not able to spend time in ranked battles, which include a unique gameplay mode. As such, this review will remain provisional until were able to spend more time with Splatoon post-launch.
here.
Splatoon in the month since its release, the more I love it. And the more that I get distracted by every single flaw.
On the one hand, as mentioned in our initial review, Splatoon is missing a lot of stuff that is standard in other online, team-based games. The lack of voice chat, for example, isn't as big of a deal in the casual turf war mode, but is more sorely felt in the ranked options.
The poorly fleshed-out friends list features are even worse. While you can jump into the same game as anyone on your friends list, there's no way to team up and join games together, which means you or your friend will be stuck waiting until a spot in the lobby opens up. Nintendo says proper party-based matchmaking will be coming to the game in an update later this summer, but until then the prospect of playing with buddies is far more frustrating than it should be.
But on the other hand, true to its promise, Nintendo has kept up an aggressive schedule of new content for Splatoon. In the month since launch, the game has received new maps, weapons, equipment and even a new ranked game mode.
At least some of this content seems to have been in the game from launch and just waiting to be unlocked, but it's still a smart move for Nintendo to spread out additions and keep rewarding players with reasons to return to the game. It's also notable that they're doing so for free where many other online game publishers would be charging money.
Just as Splatoon's colorful gameplay is difficult to compare to other shooters, it's also hard to compare the game's approach to updates and continued content against our expectations. Nevertheless, a month past its release, it's safe to say that Splatoon functions well enough, has an active community and continues to grow in the right directions, even if some obvious areas of improvement remain. As such, we're removing the provisional tag from the review and maintaining the original score.
