Dark Souls of D shooters, nor is it the worlds cutest bullet-hell game; it isnt even particularly punishing. For a game that has established an identity around an old-school read: hard design, Cuphead is unexpectedly accessible. 
Mega Man. The result is a throwback on a throwback, an ode to the good old days of games and animation alike.
Shrewdly, the creators lanced many of the warts that have festered on the good old days of both forms. Gone are both the technical limitations of classic games and, more importantly, the grotesque racist caricature of classic cartoons. Cupheads creators have emulated how we remember our nostalgic darlings, rather than how they actually exist today.
Gunstar Heroes, but its fine if you arent familiar with either of those. While its a game about battling overpowered enemies, Cuphead shares more with puzzle games, although it requires healthy reflexes, patience and, above all, a willingness to learn.
Cuphead is the story of an adorable cup that makes a deal with the devil, then has to repay a debt by collecting the contracts of the devils other debtors. Satans debtors amount to a few dozen stand-alone boss fights, which must be completed so dear Cuphead can save his soul. You and optionally, a friend in local co-op travel from one boss to the next, unleashing infinite ammunition into their eyeballs, tummies, appendages or other vulnerable spots until they submit. All the while, you dodge increasingly complex patterns of attacks.
The average boss fight in Cuphead, from beginning to end, is roughly two minutes long; short enough to be tested over and over and over again. Fights are themselves divided into a few phases, and each phase introduces its own new set of challenges such as a tall wave of bullets that inspire tiny epiphanies rather than jump over the bullets, duck. Strung together to complete a stage, these self-taught lessons produce a real sense of accomplishment. Its chemical. I do not fist-pump while playing games. I do not whoop. Cuphead had me doing both, while yelping I did it! to my very confused and indifferent dog.
Cuphead, at its best, educates the player on how to overcome each obstacle. Every boss fight has an ideal strategy discovered through trial and error. To avoid stress, its helpful to think of failure as a greater tool than any weapon. When a Medusa-like boss froze me in midair, I eventually found the spot to hide from her icy stare. After a ghastly horseman uppercutted me into oblivion, I knew to keep an eye on the bottom of the screen so I could spot him preparing a strike. With each round against a boss, I found myself progressing further, not because I was becoming some prodigious video game guru, but because I merely spotted and memorized each stone on the walkway to victory.
All of this is possible because of one crucial component: consistency.
Parrying  hopping into attacks, then bouncing off them at the last moment  is a crucial and relatively forgiving mechanic in Cuphead, not requiring the superhuman timing of fighting games that feature a similar move. In some ways, I enjoyed the parrying system more than Cupheads various attacks. Only pink objects can be parried, and they change between levels, often blending into the scene. In one stage, they are dice skittering across a casino craps table; in another, theyre tears raining from a ghoulish pair of eyes. 
Finding the parry-able objects can become a game of recon, sending Cuphead into a fight not to win, but to spot the path to victory for a rematch. Tucked into the game are three mausoleum stages in which Cuphead can only extinguish ghosts with parries, sending the little goober bouncing across the screen, bopping one ghost after the other. Its a lovely palate-cleanser, and I hope to see more of these missions in future expansions.
The game isnt designed for true gamers to race through with nothing but raw skill and unearned confidence. If anything, the boss fights punish pride, filling stages with minions, projectiles and traps. 
Where Cuphead scolds speed, it rewards a careful and thoughtful method. Anytime the challenge feels too great, a solution can typically be found by inhaling, exhaling and carefully considering all possible solutions before diving back into the fight.
Cuphead unlocks new weapons and abilities rapidly, allowing for further experimentation in pursuit of the optimal way to beat any given boss. In a fight, Cuphead can carry two weapons, a bonus power and a special attack at all times. A thoughtful loadout can impact the difficulty of a stage. For example, a stage with swarms of enemies benefits from a powerful short-range attack, a buff that automatically accumulates special attacks and a screen-clearing super move. Meanwhile, a humongous boss who fires large projectiles calls for homing bullets, a buff that prevents damage while dodging and a special move that grants brief invincibility.
Loadout weapons and buffs can purchased with coins hidden throughout a handful of platforming stages. To be clear, Cuphead isnt a platformer. A few side-scrolling moments have been added for flavor, but where boss fights teach players the unique method with which to clear each fight, these traditional stages are largely completed through brute force, killing everything on screen, pressing forward until the finish line. Classic video game boss fights have fallen out of favor in the past couple of decades, and one wonders if these bits of platforming were added to ground intimidated players in something more familiar. 
Sadly, theres no better reminder of why video games have largely scrapped the classic boss fight than the final two battles in Cuphead. The first is a gauntlet of bosses, between three and nine, along with a bonus boss. And the final ... well, I wont go into details, but it felt like a battle with the game itself. 
Cuphead has an astonishing cohesion: a stunning orchestral soundtrack and visual confidence that reminds me of my favorite Ub Iwerks cartoons. But on occasion, those elements get in the way  particularly the art, which can obscure the foreground, concealing enemies and projectiles. Sometimes the part of an enemy that can be touched without taking damage is unclear. The final fights combine both of these problems, and what should feel like a culmination of a learned expertise winds up requiring a mastery of the games idiosyncrasies  with help from luck. 
The conclusion of Cuphead is, I fear, what the game has broadly been perceived as: a comically difficult, if not cruel, experience. And thats really a shame, because the lions share of Cuphead is a special formula that takes a notoriously challenging genre of the past and carefully and lovingly introduces it to the wider audience it deserves. 
Cupheads deal with the devil eventually leads to hell, and so perhaps its fitting the conclusion should be so torturous. Though, honestly, even the residual headache has been soothed by the sweet, sweet salve of victory. When I think of my time with Cuphead, instead of frustration Ill remember the dozens of tiny breakthroughs, when the impossible became possible, and a game that built an identity around difficulty helped me to feel, however briefly, undefeatable. 
