Prey is a game about identity, wrapped in the clothing of a first-person shooter.
 takes its cues from the legendary development house Looking Glass other child  System Shock.
The result is a systems-driven adventure, one where levels are marginalized, supplanted instead by a believable, interconnected space station beset by an otherworldly force. When Prey seems the most at the whim of "modern" first-person game ideas, it struggles to make the best case for itself. But when Prey opens up enough to ask questions without easy answers, and to let you unravel its mysteries, its something much less common  and much more successful.
Prey opens as protagonist Morgan Yu  whose gender you determine before the game begins  awakens to a mysterious nightmare underway on the space station Talos I. I wont speak much about premise here, because the way the game starts, and the way the early game unfolds, is so key to the success of its ongoing appeal.
s interactive nature.
Put more simply, Prey consistently, successfully fucked with my head. Nothing is as it seems, whether thats your own understanding of Morgan as a character or whether or not a coffee cup is going to try to kill you.
Feel free to skip the next two paragraphs if even the most basic premise spoilers for Prey are too much  and honestly, I think you should go into the game knowing as little as possible about it.
Preys alien menace, the Typhon, are capable of mimmicking other forms in Preys game world, and they do so in a largely unscripted fashion. Any object you see on Talos I could be an enemy in disguise. Not even item pickups are safe, and shy of some special equipment later in the game, there's no way to know for sure without hitting an object or risking picking it up.
There are other, less subtle enemies, enemies that are more dangerous, though these are also even more tragic. Theres a pervasive sense of loss in Preys halls, if you spend even a moment trying to listen, and as I snuck around, avoiding as much conflict as possible, I heard a lot of disturbing things.
As you navigate Talos I, youll encounter a variety of obstacles, but Arkane has provided an involved skill tree system that allows you to spend points  albeit in a manner effectively and disturbingly grounded in Preys fiction  to gain new abilities. Some of these are combat-related, including bizarre supernatural abilities ranging from stealth to head-on combat. But others are more exploratory in nature.
Methods of access were my preference. Prey is full of locked doors, and I wanted to see behind every one. Some can be hacked via a tolerable minigame, assuming you have the appropriate level of hacking to do so. Others are blocked by heavy objects that can be lifted, if youre strong enough. Still others are at the mercy of security stations that can be manipulated through unorthodox ways, if you have the tools.
These spaces yield equipment and materials vital for survival aboard Talos I, but more importantly, each new space is an opportunity for Prey to tell part of the stations story or history. As you find the remains of Talos Is crew, youll frequently find their personal data devices and their passwords, which in turn allow you to read emails and other accounts of their lives. Its through these stories that I was able to piece together what was happening on Talos I, and then what happened on Talos I as everything went sideways.
The freedom Prey offered to go as deep into its mystery as I cared to was almost hypnotic. The starting space, for example, is full of locked doors and areas you simply wont be able to access the first time through. But once I had accumulated enough upgrade points, I went back and started peeling away layers of that onion. In the process, I stumbled on challenges that were, to be honest, way above my pay grade, and I survived, but just barely.
It felt really good to play a game that let me almost screw myself that way.
Its not that Prey isnt fair  at least generally speaking, anyway. But the game seems to have respect for your ability to get through somewhere if youre resourceful enough to get into it. And somehow, this didnt counteract the sensation that I was getting away with something when I managed to hack or sneak my way into a new area.
Part of the reward in these spaces has to do with the variety of areas and environments Talos I comprises, up to and including zero gravity and even vacuum spaces. Talos I may not be the biggest play space Ive ever experienced in a game. But it feels significant, and extremely time-consuming. You could probably finish Prey in - hours if you were really rushing through its critical path, but doing most of its side tasks, my in-game clock was at  hours before I saw an actual ending.
Granted, my play time was actually longer than that, because Prey is willing to kill you just about all the time. Sometimes, this feels legit  "yeah, I probably shouldnt have jumped from a third-story atrium window to the floor" or "I didnt make sure that thing couldnt hit me before I tried to beat it into oblivion with a wrench."
At other times, it all feels a little punitive. Ammunition for weapons isnt scarce, exactly, and you can make more, though its easy to run out at inopportune moments. Sometimes, this was educational. Experimentation often yielded surprising results with less obvious tools. But sometimes, Prey really wants you to use more powerful tools, and if you run out at the wrong time, youre probably going to get murdered extremely quickly.
This difficulty is great at instilling a sense of risk and danger, and between that and an aggressive, excellent soundtrack, Prey is fantastic at creating an ominous, foreboding mood. For much of the game, combat can be punishing, but its peppered throughout at a smart pace. Its exciting, not exhausting, and it doesnt get in the way of the exploringlearningexperimenting loop.
However, Prey loses sight of its strengths in the last third or so. As things on the station become more desperate, the freedom of movement and decision-making that allowed me to lose myself in the mythos and mysteries of Talos I became bogged down in a constant back-and-forth through the station. I had already discovered most of the secrets in the primary areas the game wanted me to pass through again and again. It all felt like an excuse to make me fight and shoot my way through new encounters in the same spaces.
Sometimes this felt at the service of Preys story, and I grudgingly accepted the busywork involved. But for much of it, it felt like padding, and it really dragged me back down to earth, no pun intended.
s potential ending scenarios, but it all seemed to have grown through and around my decisions.
Arkane has the confidence to let Prey end on its own terms, even if it occasionally leans too heavily on its least interesting aspects. When it looks most like a shooter, Prey is merely competent. But as a mystery, a deep-space haunted house with dozens of stories of tragedy and humanity to tell, Prey is a remarkably successful archaeological expedition  and it manages to compellingly ruminate on what it means to be .
