Sportsfriends bundle  is a strange and not entirely accessible one. It layers learning curve upon learning curve, a latticework of skill progression so complex that it could, to the untrained eye, seem completely random. Also, its brain-searingly fast, and everythings almost always exploding.
Watching the chaos of literally any IDARB match, you may very well dismiss it as a dumb, button-mashing party game. And it certainly can be that, should you choose to play the game that way. But below the bombastic surface of IDARB, theres a near-endless well of strategy to tap into, constituting one of the most exciting games this fledgling genres ever seen.
The goal of IDARB is deceptively simple: Put the ball in your teams goal by any means necessary, be it shooting, ricocheting, alley-ooping or swatting it out of a nearby opponents hands. Every one of those commands is much more difficult to successfully execute than youd think. Shooting, for example, requires a surprising amount of timing and precision. If you can ricochet the ball off a platform before it goes in, you can dramatically boost your score, but those shots are extremely difficult to make, and might not be worth rebounding the ball into your opponents clutches.
The D playing field is the same for every match, composed of several rows of platforms, some pits towards the bottom and an arena in the middle, where the ball spawns after either team scores. The map itself is one of the most genius things about IDARB, as the winning team is usually the one that took the smartest routes through the arena. If you can outmaneuver your opponents, youll give yourself a much larger window to try and set up a high-scoring trick shot.
IDARB has an NBA Jam sensibility that really does it for me. Almost every scoring maneuver is an exciting, outrageous thing, whether youve sent an arcing shot halfway across the map, alley-ooped it to your teammate or used an opponents head as a trampoline straight to the dunk zone.
Successfully coordinating a scoring strategy with your teammate is genuinely rewarding  far more so than the countless goals youll accidentally make with a botched pass or well-timed block. Unfortunately, the more people you add to your IDARB match, the more the game focuses on the latter.
You can play IDARB with up to eight people distributed to your liking between two teams. One-on-one duels are actually pretty great  theyre all about smart map routing, tricking your opponent into hopping on one row of platforms while you drive the ball down another. For my money, two-on-two is the sweet spot. It can get chaotic, but still rewards teamwork and quick-thinking with victory. As silly as the game gets, two-on-two matches represent some masterfully balanced game design.
Any more players than that, though, and things start to get a bit inscrutable. Three-on-three matches are doable, but make even simple maneuvers exponentially more difficult to execute. Four-on-four matches are just batshit crazy, filling the screen with so many explosions, flashes and sprites that just finding your own character will occupy most of your mental faculties.
IDARB gives you the options you need to make the game thats right for you, letting you adjust rules, mechanics and social functionality before launching a match. Finding the right game size can be tricky, though. Ideally, if you possess a massive stockpile of Xbox One controllers, you can play with up to eight folks locally. Theres also online play, letting you sync up with up to eight friends in a private match.
 
Theres matchmaking too, but this mode leaves much to be desired. You can only matchmake with one other console hosting the same number of players youve got playing on your console. That means you cant pop into matchmaking by yourself and get placed in an eight-player game  youll just end up in a one-on-one match.
Its a frustrating limitation, but the games online component works fairly well otherwise; only about one in five matches I played online suffered from latency issues. Of course, playing online also allows you to showcase your lovingly crafted IDARB team, which you can make with the games simple, playful creation tools.
All of that customization is aesthetic, not mechanic, but that doesnt make whipping up an unstoppable IDARB force any less enjoyable. You can make players out of a simple pixel-drawing grid, draw up a logo that waves proudly behind your team on the IDARB field and a theme song that plays when you claim victory on the pitch.
I created most of the Polygon editorial staff, complete with their own team logo and theme song  a weird, chippy version of the Jurassic Park theme  and took them online to spar against the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, the original Power Rangers and what I believe may have been the main cast of The West Wing.
Its really funny, just like a lot of things in IDARB. Theres an announcer who chimes in after every goal, barking ancient memes, TV theme song lyrics, commercial tag lines and occasionally super obscure movie quotes like "My car just hit a water buffalo," that classic bon mot from Fletch. Theres a single-player campaign that pits you against mustachioed cops, a cult of moms and breakfast food items, culminating in a credits sequence that entreats players to Tweet nice things about the game.
 IDARB throws a lot of goof spaghetti at the wall, and a shocking amount of it sticks. But its absurdity can, when cranked up to , distract from the real joy of the game  its satisfying mechanics and miles-deep strategy. Even at its silliest, even when youre playing as President Josiah Bartlett and dunking over the head of Robocop, dont get it twisted: IDARB plays like an honest-to-goodness, capital-S Sport. 
here.
