Were in uncharted territory with Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare.
I derided it as being one of the worst installments in Call of Duty history.
downvoted videos in YouTube history, the end result is something far more interesting than anyone would have guessed  at least in its campaign.
Call of Dutys recent forays into future warfare make this new journey into the outer reaches of our solar system kind of a no-brainer, but despite the setting, Infinite Warfares campaign is something of a return to basics. The waves of AI and VR ridiculousness of Black Ops s campaign have been abandoned in favor of a simple story about one core concept: whether the mission is more important than the lives under ones command.
Its a question that might have seemed too heavy for previous games in the franchise; even some of the best Black Ops and Advanced Warfare, for example struggled with depth and, at most, had few standout characters.
Infinite Warfare, on the other hand, offers the strongest writing and characters the series has seen thus far. A measure of narrative strength and success is whether you can remember a characters name, or whether you care if they die. And I cared. A lot. I havent cared this much since Gaz and the gang from the first Modern Warfare were summarily executed in that campaigns closing seconds.
And why did I care? Infinite Warfares cast is fleshed out. Theyre believable characters with personalities and motivations, characters I wanted to see make it out safe and sound. Not all of them do.
The storys only real weak point? A spot of celebrity stunt casting in Kit Harington Game of Thrones Jon Snow. Unlike your shipmates, Haringtons Admiral Kotch is flat and uninspired, offering shallow platitudes and threats of Martian dominance yes, hes from Mars. His appearances are mercifully few and far between, with the bulk of your time spent jawing with your newfound buddies.
Beyond the story, the campaign succeeds on several fronts. The interstellar setting allows for quite a bit of environmental variety, even if the boots-on-the-ground gameplay hasnt changed all that much since the first Black Ops. Standout levels include a trip to Earths moon and a mission that takes place on a rapidly spinning asteroid that makes it seem like theres a -second-long daynight cycle. Planetary variety did wonders to make me feel like I wasnt repeatedly assaulting the same old arctic military base.
Another success: ship-to-ship dogfighting. While it lacks the depth of more involved space simulations like TIE Fighter or Freespace, the dogfighting sequences are a great way to add some more variety to the Call of Duty formula. Certain missions have you fighting on a planets surface before jumping into a ship and flying into space to board an enemy starship, complete with out-of-ship zero-gravity sequences, all over the course of just a few minutes. And unlike short vehicle sequences in past games, which felt like cute gimmicks, the ships here feel fully integrated into the overall package.
The campaigns overall length is comparable to previous installments, at just over seven hours, but thats padded a bit by another first: side missions. Not to be confused with the groan-inducing survival scenarios in Black Ops , Infinite Warfares short, -minute endeavors offer a mix of infantry-based ship assaults and pure dogfighting sequences. One of the most interesting sequences has you donning an enemy uniform to go undercover and assassinate enemy leadership. You can actually stealth your way through the whole mission, eventually sucking all the air out of the conference room theyre meeting in. All of the side missions have their own little twists to make them feel unique, even if they reuse a lot of assets.
I realize that many people skip right past the Call of Duty campaign, only playing a mission here and there while waiting for friends to hop online to play multiplayer. Dont make that mistake with Infinite Warfare. Its an exceptional single-player experience, and the strongest part of what this package has to offer.
Unlike its campaign, multiplayer in Infinite Warfare is, well ... safe.
The last Call of Duty game that Infinity Ward worked on, Ghosts, messed with a lot of the systems that worked so well in Black Ops . It took risks, shifting from the simple and elegant Pick  system to something far more convoluted. It also suffered from technical and balance issues. This year, it feels a bit like the developer decided to take its biggest risks in the campaign, while playing it very safe on the multiplayer front.
If you played Black Ops , the multiplayer in Infinite Warfare is damn near identical. Movement feels the same, with boost jumps and wall-running returning. Character abilities work the same as well, although this time theyre locked to specialized rigs that come with a selectable super and passive ability. Some of the perks have been switched around, and the killstreaks are a little more space-oriented  laser bombardments instead of explosives, for example  but for the most part, this is Black Ops  multiplayer with new maps and some bells and whistles tied on.
One of those bells is a new system called Mission Teams. Before each match, youre able to select one of three random objectives. These objectives are determined by your chosen team. The first team you unlock is the easiest, with objectives focused on getting kills with guns or abilities. As you level up, youll unlock new teams with more varied and challenging objectives.
Why does this work? Finally theres a reason to finish a match. Call of Duty has a bit of a reputation for being brutal on newcomers, and if youre losing by a boatload, you may feel like youre just throwing yourself into a meat grinder over and over again. With Mission Teams you have something to work for, even if the match is a total loss. Completing these mini-objectives will level up your Mission Teams and eventually unlock skins and new guns that are exclusive to that team. Its a nice addition for more casual players who want to feel like theyre actually making progress without destroying the flow for everyone else.
Mission Teams arent the only way to unlock new guns. The belovedhated supply drops of Black Ops  are back in Infinite Warfare, with an added twist: salvage. In the previous iteration of supply drops, you were at the whimsy of luck when you were trying to get a specific gun to drop. Now, with salvage earned when opening supply drops, completing missions and finding duplicate items, you can save up your resources to unlock specific gun variants. The end result: Even if you have the worst luck in the world and the gun youre pushing for never drops, youll eventually have enough salvage to buy it outright. Sadly, there are still guns that will unlock only from supply drops, but eventually they will become craftable as well, as new guns get added.
Its an interesting system that allows for yet another form of progression, though I do have balance concerns. Unlocking some of the epic-tier guns without spending any money beyond the  or more you already shelled out could take weeks or even months. That feels like those who pay will have an advantage over those who dont, at least at launch. Infinity Wards diligence on gun balancing is really the X-factor here, and right now we just have to hope the studio will keep things fair.
Even if youre not into the randomness of supply drops and the time sink of salvage collecting, theres still plenty to work for in Infinite Warfare. The series is peerless when it comes to customization, and there are dozens of gun skins, emblems and player banners to customize your character with. Every gun, perk and piece of equipment has its own challenges and unlocks, leaving true obsessives with a good years worth of stuff to keep them busy. Its a relief to see that Call of Duty hasnt strayed from these tenets of constant progression and reward when other franchises, like this years otherwise excellent Battlefield , have pared back massively on this front.
Infinity Wards contributions to the core gameplay introduced in Black Ops  are welcome, even if they feel additive rather than revolutionary. Its fair to say that if you found last years multiplayer to be to your liking, youll get the same level of enjoyment out of this years multiplayer. Thats assuming you can stomach another full year of what is essentially the same game with a few minor upgrades.
Like its multiplayer mode, Zombies in Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare seems to lean heavily on Treyarchs pre-established formula. Four random heroes are gathered together in a zany environment and must do a series of increasingly obscure tasks to unlock a mysterious Easter egg.
This years installment is set in the s, with archetypes like the Valley girl, the nerd, the jock and the, uh, rapper is this even an archetype?, attempting to survive in a zombie-filled amusement park.
The fundamentals are identical to just about every other Zombies map weve seen thus far, but several concessions have been made to encourage those who have been scared off by the modes notorious difficulty. For one thing, its actually pretty easy to survive, at least to wave , without knowing anything. Exploration is also pretty straightforward, with maps to guide you around and sections of the park being themed "Come to the rocket ship!" or "Were in the arcade!" for easy identification.
The mode also tells you a lot more about what you should be doing. Treyarchs Zombies maps are known for being stingy with guidance. Here, though, there are numerous help screens and tooltips. One of the pickups you can stumble upon is a sack of jelly beans. Throw some on the ground and nothing happens. In a previous game you might have thought, "Oh well, maybe I have to save these for later?" Here youre actually told to shoot the candy to set it ablaze, creating a temporary barrier to ward off zombies. Its not exactly holding your hand, but its not completely tight-lipped either. Well call it quasi-helpful.
Another bone thrown to the player is that weapon experience and attachments in multiplayer actually carry over to Zombies. If youve unlocked a silencer in multiplayer and have that specific weapon unlocked in Zombies, itll come packed with that attachment when you buy it off a wall. Its similar to the system in Black Ops , but again is a little friendlier and more generous, a running theme in this mode.
Theres no doubt that Infinity Ward made a wise call in ditching the Ghosts franchise. Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare offers one of the best campaigns the series has provided, with stellar writing and varied environments. While that level of ingenuity didnt transfer over to multiplayer and Zombies, taken as an entire package, Infinite Warfare is a standout effort whose biggest sin is not trying to reinvent the wheel at every turn.
here.
After spending a week on live servers, Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare seems to behaving ... mostly. Intermittent lag compensation issues have plagued certain multiplayer matches games for me, resulting in near-instant, unfair deaths. All Call of Duty games have suffered from this to some extent, but the issue seems particularly pronounced in Infinite Warfare. Hardcore modes help to mitigate it until the problem is addressed, but it's an issue that's keeping multiplayer from reaching the heights that Black Ops  did. A larger problem, involving major frame-rate issues on the Xbox One version of the game in Zombies mode, was fixed in a patch late last week. As such, we're removing the provisional flag from our review, and the score is unchanged.
