To say that Chapters is long-awaited is something of an understatement. Its been more than eight years since the release of its predecessor, Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, in which heroine Zoe Castillos story ended on a sharp cliffhanger. Split into two universes  a futuristic cyberpunk world called Stark and the fantasy world of Arcadia  Book  wants to provide both immediate closure on its past journey and enough intrigue to jumpstart a new one.
Despite having little in the way of substantial story content, Book  of Dreamfall Chapters makes even the mundane seem fun and adventurous. It couples a believable, superbly written lead character with complex decisions in a promising start to the next entry of The Longest Journey.
Dreamfall Chapters opens after the events of Dreamfall: The Longest Journey, in which Arcadian Kian Alvane was imprisoned for treason and Zoe forced into a coma. While her physical body sleeps, kept alive only by machines, her subconscious mind roams the strange, undefined place known as Storytime. Kian, who for now plays only a brief role in Chapters, awaits death for his crimes.
This initial imprisonment for both characters is temporary, and players are quickly swept back into Stark to reclaim some semblance of normalcy for Zoe. Book  of Dreamfall Chapters is a slice-of-life experience that, for the most part, follows a single day in Zoes life in the city of Propast. I spent time with my therapist, went to work and helped with a political campaign. Peppered in between these big-picture goals were smaller interactions and choices that promise to affect relationships in future episodes.
Book  is more about planting these seeds for future consequences than exploring them. During conversations, I was able to select my response through simple dialogue choices. Some outcomes seem more obviously telegraphed. Fighting with Zoes boyfriend, for example, appears more likely to cause a rift in the relationship than if I were to drop the issue. Others choices are more complicated, and some are downright silly, like deciding what kind of lunch to buy.
I lost count of the number of times I was told that characters would remember my actions, but I encountered only a few major differences based on those choices in this episode. The largest deviation, a response I gave early on, determined Zoes occupation and directly affected the characters I came in contact with.
Dreamfall Chapters makes these details interesting by portraying them as grounded snapshots that reflect Zoes character. For each option I hovered over, Zoe would discuss the response internally. Its an elegant solution to adding weight to every choice and removing the black-and-white nature of decision-based narratives. A chatty afternoon with my therapist seemed harmless enough as I selected generic options for small talk, but it was Zoe herself who tipped me off to the flirty nature the conversation would take. I was able to make decisions that felt informed, and it was an effective way to shift Zoes character while still making her feel well-defined and believable.
Zoe feels more like an old girlfriend from college than a character created with pen and paper. Her offhanded quips are sometimes sharp, sometimes goofy  the kind youd expect while running errands with a friend. Having access to her thoughts via internal dialogue and a diary helps develop her as a layered, multifaceted character. Despite pushing on with her life, shes frustrated and confused about her family and her past. She struggles to make new friends in a new city  an experience that I can relate to all too well. Its these inner conflicts, these motivations that feel so very human, that establish her as one of the most charming characters Ive ever encountered in a video game. I loved spending time with her, even when that time was built around simple, sometimes frustrating errands.
patching out the games problems, but they were a source of frustration during my time with Book .
During my first day as Zoe, I spent time bartering with merchants and cruising around town with a robot companion. While movement is controlled through simple keyboard options, Dreamfall Chapters uses a point-and-click system to interact with people and objects. Items are stashed away in an inventory menu that can be pulled up with a keyboard click; as you collect more, you can combine key items by dragging them on top of each other. Presenting items to a specific person, or using them correctly   like dragging a key into a lock  solved most of the puzzles I encountered.
Figuring out which items to use when is satisfying and intuitive, but using your mouse controls to, say, direct your robot to do something specific can be downright infuriating. In one particularly annoying segment, I had to deliver verbal, directional orders to navigate my robot around a grid. This amounted to me doling out click-by-click commands by selecting a direction and waiting for the robot to move. In a game as short as Chapters, it felt like a slow, clunky way to spend my time.
 Dreamfall Chapters - Book : Reborn revels in the details. As the first act in a longer story to come, it rewards you with effective writing in the moment for taking your time and deliberating over the smallest decisions. Its still too early to tell how satisfying the payoff for these divergences will be, but Book  isnt about consequences. Its  a series of small, deliberate steps that efficiently clears the way for longer, more exciting strides.  
here.
