The most harrowing moment of Madden NFL  is not a third-down conversion. Its not coming to scrimmage at the opponents , time running out, with no good options and the season on the line.
Its being asked to repeat a play back to your coach in practice.
Somehow, EA Sports made such a rote expectation of the quarterback into a new and frightening experience for the player. It comes about a third of the way into Longshot, the inaugural story mode of Madden NFL , and the centerfold of sports video gamings most glamorous annual franchise.
Strong I twins, said the voice in the headset. Flex dagger. X Dig. Y Shallow. Z Go. And when I got it out of order, Devin Wade, the hero of Longshot, mumbled it back tentatively. Jack Ford brilliantly acted by Rus Blackwell, the dead-end ex-NFL coach babysitting Wade J.R. Lemon, a former Stanford running back in a reality TV show that represents the only shot at making the league for both, spat out another play. Devin and I flubbed that one, too.
In the storys most critical hour, Ford realizes Wade doesnt know how to call plays because Wade was never taught that. He quit college football in an emotional tailspin before he learned to read a defense. Ford, whipsawed by both the realities of the NFL and his obligations as a contracted TV performer, almost gives up on Wade. But the two pull together, and deliver a conclusion that is part Horatio Alger and part Robby Benson, with just enough wiggle room for a sharp-eyed user to sweeten the outcome.
Longshot leans hard on all the archetypes of sports mythology, from beat-up pickup trucks and earnest sidekicks to twangy high school coaches and Hall of Fame cameos. But in its heart is a hero both supremely abled and uncertain of himself. And only Madden NFL, which for  years has done more than any other work of sports media to make the jargon-laced concepts of American football concrete and understandable, could make that conflict authentic for the user.
Written by Mike Young and Adrian Todd Zuniga, two childhood friends from St. Louis, Longshot is the biggest departure from Maddens usual suite of career modes and online multiplayer in almost a decade. Narratively, Longshot is an uncomplicated tale of redemption, and structurally, its very easy to play, based on quick-time sequences and dialogue choices that are nearly impossible to fail. Longshot has three outcomes, possibly a fourth, that guarantee some pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. 
like its sibling FIFA  last year, Madden is placing its eggs in the story mode basket.
The sop to longtime players is that the Frostbite engine that makes Longshot possible delivers crisper visuals and more detail. It makes players in the open field more dangerous, but the pace of play takes longer to get them open. This will be frustrating for those who learned where to fling the ball the instant the defense showed its hand. The new engine seems to do little to assist the running game, whose success still depends on catching another team in an unsuitable defense or changing the play at the line of scrimmage. One could argue thats how it works in real life, too. But running in American football often takes longer to pay off than the five-, six- or seven-minute quarters common to most Madden games.
With Franchise taking a back seat to Longshot, Madden NFL  drives users more to its Ultimate Team mode than ever. That gets a new mode, MUT Squads, which marks the return of cooperative online multiplayer but only in Ultimate Team for the first time in this series since . MUT Squads can be a rollicking good time  but it depends on the users coordination and communication, which is not an unfair expectation. In MUT Squads, one user handles the offensive play calling and performs as the quarterback, another handles the defensive play calling, and a third, the head coach, supplies the teams uniform and stadium from their Ultimate Team collection, and they can choose any playing role not occupied by the other two. 
Maddens old online team play mode only gave users control of the offenses so-called skill positions  quarterback, runner or receiver. MUT Squads lets any user take control of any player on the field. Its a nice idea to take over an offensive guard and imagine pulling out like Jerry Kramer to de-cleat some poor bastard on the wrong end of a power sweep; there just arent enough instances where its really fun to take that role. I also couldnt get a clear sense of who exactly was in charge of calling timeouts, given the change in responsibilities from offense and defense to special teams.
Receivers play the biggest role in MUT Squads because the user can run whatever pattern they please, irrespective of the plays design. In the old co-op mode, a quarterback would throw to the route that the receiver was ordered to run, whether the user followed it or not. Madden NFL s designers say MUT Squads quarterback AI will now throw to a receiver where he actually is, theoretically opening up multiplayer to all kinds of wacky, improvised receiving routes. Thats a nifty sell, but it didnt have much practical application working with total strangers. Unless a user-controlled QB and receiver know what the other is doing, its best to run the play as its designed  and the user-controlled receiver should make their move a step or two earlier just to be on the safe side.
The accommodations in passing AI for MUT Squads seem to have inspired the newest gameplay gimmick, called targeted passing. Its supposed to give the user the ability to throw the ball to any spot on the field and lead a receiver to it. Its implementation is so difficult to pull off in the four seconds a quarterback gets, maximum, that the user is just better off making traditional throws, and varying their trajectories and speed with the modifiers used in past Maddens. L or the left trigger brings up the targeted passing mode, which then lets the user steer an icon to any part of the field rather than throwing it directly at a receiver. Because this requires the left stick, activating targeted passing immobilizes the quarterback in the pocket. I felt like Madden NFL  put a slight thumb on the scale to compensate for this, with an aging dropback statue like Philip Rivers shrugging off hits that would have ended the play immediately in the past. Theres still not enough time and not enough value in targeted passing to make the control system worthwhile.
Longshot tries to ingratiate the user to the control scheme of targeted passing with some of its developmental drills, but its not really the same. And if a user fails any critical exercise in Longshot, the game simply backs up and lets you repeat it. This can be annoying and immersion-breaking, particularly in the weird minigame that involves steering a pass midflight, back and forth against the laws of physics, into a receivers hands in slow motion. But at least I wasnt flunked out for one inconsiderate choice.
Longshots most critical decisions are a little more subtle. Devins social interactions can affect his draft evaluation  and he can end up undrafted  as much as his performances. In an early scene, he can take a mobile phone picture of his pal Colt Cruise played by Scott Porter of Friday Night Lights pissing on the roadside, and post it to social media. Doing so will downgrade him. As the story wends its way to a conclusion, the player can make decisions that help his friends draft position  at a cost to Devins  or focus entirely on impressing the scouts.
Whatever ending the user achieves, its guaranteed to be bittersweet. Devin Wade does not magically raise himself from a nobody to a first-round draft-pick wonderboy. What limited suspense the mode holds rests on Colts professional fate and how Devin affects it. And the narrative highlight is Fords striking confession of destroying a young players career to save his own.
Madden NFL  places its bets on a tried-and-true tale more than changes to gameplay or new layers in the career suite, and Longshot may not impress more worldly people. Late in the story, Colt makes a dry mention of Tim Tebow, and I couldnt help but think of how sports blogs today would shit all over Devin Wade if he existed in real life.
whose only son to make the NFL was a punter. He returned from his rookie season to a Main Street parade, showing everyone a Super Bowl ring. I know it is rare for fairy tale dreams of professional sports to come true. 
But they do, and they make a lot of people very happy.
