Somehow, NBA K continues to preserve the series creative gameplay ideas and expressive personality almost two decades in.   Sweeping updates and additions are almost unnecessary at this stage. Ks lone basketball competition, EAs NBA Live, is caught in a development delay on consoles, possibly until the NBAs All-Star break. Yet, the tempting future presented by NBA K shows an annualized sports product unwilling to slow down. Its unusual to see the slate of growing options and modes challenge the expectations that come with sports games. Even when those aspects falter  and they do in terms of storytelling  the groundwork lays out an interesting future.
For the second year in a row, NBA Ks MyCareer mode is where the majority of updates happen. This makes sense  according to stats in the first episode of KTV, a weekly video broadcast blending NBA and K news, MyCareer now boasts the highest number of players in the franchise.
NBA Ks MyCareer story came from Spike Lee, a narrowly woven urban poverty tale about player avatar Frequency Vibrations. NBA K, meanwhile, taps Creed scribe Aaron Covington along with Creed star Michael B. Jordan to tell a new story.
Your custom-made high school standout, automatically coined "President" or "Pres" for short, serves as NBA Ks MyCareer star player. Narrative themes of hard work and success have a literal imprint. Engaging with practice sessions builds a meter titled "Doin the Work." Pres earns a boost to attributes within a handful of sittings.
Those who downloaded Ks The Prelude earlier this month played Ks initial MyCareer chapter. From the selection to play for one of  college teams and a stint on on the modern USA Basketball squad, pacing keeps the fiction in focus. Post-Prelude, its a grind of assigned practices, event appearances and game days.
The few stray story bits act as a reprieve from repetition. Jordans impact as Pres teammate Justice Young warrants an enthusiastic video introduction. Later in the season, players have the option to control Justice on the court with the purpose of building tighter camaraderie, a departure for the usually solitary game mode. Youngs brief appearances elsewhere mark him as a superfluous addition to the narrative otherwise.
As things go with sports games, MyCareer addresses problems from one year ago: on-court performance dictates changes in dialogue. Criticism for those struggling with  points per game makes sense, in opposition to Spike Lees possible success story of a third-string bench rider.
A focus on MyCareer also makes sense because so much of it fits into the rest of NBA K. Features bleed into other features, with ridiculously diverse gameplay choices. Pres can step away from NBA tedium for MyPark, pickup-style street basketball that takes place in oddball locations like a steel mill, adding color to the proceedings. You can form teams or dabble in random games, and automatic matchmaking eliminates the need to wait around as in previous games, with the bonus of mercifully pairing players by skill level.
Pres also features into the online K Pro-Am, the league-within-a-league carrying individual team owners, free agency markets and customizable squads. Those looking to practice before entering free agency can jump into quick five-on-five matchups. Pro-Am holds the odd distinction of being labeled an esport by K. Its weird but effective in concept, if hampered by menu crashes and NBA Ks notoriously fidgety online connectivity. During my review  sessions, two games were lost partway through, and a handful never started.
As great as MyPark and Pro-Am are in theory, both modes leaderboards are too full of players that appear to have paid their way upward. Regardless of where MyCareer gameplay happens, the slog of leveling eases with NBA Ks Virtual Currency, which can be bought in amounts that range from  to . While gameplay skill factors in, high player ratings carry obvious and substantial impact, with less urgency to improve for higher VC payouts. Never mind how this comes at odds with the hard work and success theme of Aaron Covingtons story.
The fantasy-driven MyTeam, with its improved and faster user interface, features additional dollars-for-content offerings, mirroring EAs Ultimate Team. Open digital packs of cards, build a team, complete challenges or play your unlocked squad online. The formula is familiar, with a handful of tweaks to card behavior like Dynamic Duos. With Duos in play, cards signifying chemistry earn significant categorical stat boosts when played on the floor together, altering how lineups are assembled. Its a different level of strategy rather than merely picking squads with high ratings.
Digging into MyGM franchise or season play brings more touch-up. As a GM, league meetings allow for relocation and the introduction of custom expansion teams, optionally bringing the NBA to  teams max. Retiring jersey numbers is now possible too. These pile onto a mode already numerous menus in depth, all needed and readily accessible from the sharp UI design. Conversations with players alter team attributes better or worse, and the fan base changes their loyalty based on concessionmemorabilia prices, with added battles of player scouting and contract negotiations.
Where MyCareer and the modes it touches have seen the biggest updates, on the court, NBA Ks basketball sim has received a nuanced update. Theres a wealth of bullet-point improvements, like new animations and physics  fine-tuning that might go unnoticed unless you revert to prior NBA K games.
The odd proclamation "this is not a game" adorns the box art, marketing thats a touch self-indulgent, although play sessions do carry competitive theater and pleasing crowd reactions. In tense moments, home fans visibly stomp to "D-fense" chants. In garbage time, they sing along with the PA system. This brings an unusual, even unequaled, level of energy to elements surrounding the game itself. When paired with a commentary booth rotating in prior players like Brent Barry and Chris Webber as analysts, broadcast accuracy continues to earn best-in-class credibility. Specialized touches include stunt shows at halftime and a remarkable number of dialogue instances  player and coach interviews happen before, during and after games.
While its easy to dismiss the actual game development for being in a comfortable resting pattern, minor changes slowly evolve the series. Otherwise, Ks game would only be a more technically decorated version of the series undervalued progenitor, NBA Action . Progress is understated on the court itself, but Ks massive selection of growing features and choice creates an entire basketball platform continuing to sit upon the bones of a premier simulation.
 NBA Ks story falls apart in the end, despite the Hollywood talents, but luckily, created players still have plenty to do with their custom creation, both online and off. With K Pro-Am providing an intriguing look at Ks esports future, and despite the presence of microtransactions, the basis is there for something long term. Taken as a whole, NBA K is a worthy if subtle upgrade to an already extensive, even exhaustive, sports sim. 
here.
