That's not a condemnation of Omega Ruby amp; Alpha Sapphire ORAS, which smartly utilize the features that made X amp; Y such a long-overdue revitalization for the series. The interconnected world, vibrant aesthetic and unparalleled charm of last year's games have been layered onto Pokmon ORAS, giving it a look and feel that is unrecognizable when compared to the original  Game Boy Advance titles Pokmon Ruby amp; Sapphire.
But the issues this franchise has always suffered from are hard-wired into the DNA of Ruby amp; Sapphire, and no amount of visual polish or social functionality can buff them out.
Pokmon ORAS could best be described as a supplemental entry in the current generation of the franchise  a generation that X amp; Y kicked off on DS last year. At the risk of putting too fine a point on it, ORAS feels less like a remake, and more like an X amp; Y expansion, as all of its best features were introduced in last year's game.
The Player Search System makes a triumphant return, and operates exactly as it did in X amp; Y. Connecting to other players for trading, battling or sharing heals or buffs through the still unfortunately named O-Power system is a breeze, and makes multiplayer an integral part of the experience. Super Training and Pokmon Amie are also back, giving you accessible options for boosting your team's stats and friendship levels.
Those tools are a welcome addition to Pokmon ORAS, but their inclusion in the game's bottom-screen UI  a suite of tools called "PokNav Plus"  is a tad clumsy. There's just a lot going on in that screen: You can use it to display a super-thorough world map which shows where certain Pokmon, trainers, berries and more can be found, a TV station that broadcasts updates about your achievements, and the "PlayNav," which essentially contains all the bottom-screen features of X amp; Y.
The most useful application, and arguably Pokmon ORAS' most fascinating original feature, is the DexNav, a radar tool which helps you capture stronger, more uncommon monsters. Occasionally, in tall grass, water or other places wild Pokmon pop up, you'll see the shadow of a Pokmon appear in the overworld. If you run toward it, it will disappear; instead, you have to sneak up on the Pokmon by slightly tilting the analog stick  another new feature for the series.
Pokmon ORAS' aesthetic is more vibrant and scattershot than that of X amp; Y, featuring brighter hues and more disparate habitats than its predecessor. The result might be less cohesive than X amp; Y's clever take on Pok-France, but it's classic Pokmon, taking you from lush forests to haunted houses to active volcanoes with little transition between.
In fact, there's a lot of "classic Pokmon" moments built into Pokmon ORAS, making it a far more nostalgic adventure than X amp; Y ever was. But in recapturing the charm of the series' earliest entries, Pokmon ORAS illustrates a thorough picture of the franchise's chronic, most infuriating problems.
Pokmon ORAS' story is as it almost always is with this franchise  the biggest downfall. It's a threadbare plot even for a Pokmon title about beating gyms, learning about Mega Evolution, stopping your respective version's big bad team, facing off against an apocalyptic legendary Pokmon and conquering the Elite Four. Nothing about it, including its barely-developed characters and steady stream of MacGuffins, is exciting or memorable.
Pokmon ORAS does add a few new beats to the main plot, but they're all pretty insubstantial. There's a new mechanic called "Primal Reversion," which is basically an automatic form of Mega Evolution that's used only by ORAS's two main legendaries. There's more of an emphasis on Pokmon Contests  another returning feature  but aside from unlockable "cosplay Pikachu," you're not really incentivized to participate.
What's frustrating is that these flaws didn't need to be carried over in this remake  as evidenced by the title's post-game "Delta Episode" content, which sees you save Hoenn from an impending asteroid strike. The narrative and tension of that content fits in with the world of Ruby amp; Sapphire, and is way more memorable than everything that preceded it. It shows that this franchise's story telling can be shaken up, and can be interesting, rather than consistently bland and, at best, inoffensive.
here.
