Rare has existed since , when it was a quirky start-up British development house going by the name Ultimate Play the Game. Since then, the studio has worked on well over  games across a huge number of platforms. Rare Replay doesn't contain anywhere near every game from the developer's striking catalog, but its collection of  games represents a full spectrum of genres and creative capabilities.
Some of Rare Replay's games are fantastic, and some are terrible; some are a welcome return to warm memories, while others would have served me better by fading from my brain for good. But what's notable about Rare Replay is not the quality or lack thereof of any individual game. This collection provides something more important than the merits of each title on its own: a vital historical record, an incredible archive of the achievements  good and bad  of one of the most ubiquitous developers in the industry.
Donkey Kong.
But the rest of the earliest entries in Rare Replay are ambitious, ahead-of-their-time games that can be really hard to parse for a modern gamer. Entries like 's Atic Atac or 's Gunfright  games that were popularized on the U.K.-only ZX Spectrum hardware but remain largely unknown to a U.S. audience  were difficult for me to figure out.
However, Rare Replay has several smart tools to help new players get comfortable with the older releases. Most notably, the pre-N games in the collection come with a series of "Snapshot" challenges, bite-sized bits of gameplay that force you to master one specific mechanic in each game. The Snapshots can also be strung together in a playlist format, challenging you to get through snippets from multiple games with a limited number of lives. Snapshots can be tough, but I found them useful if not essential to piecing together how to actually play these relics.
Rare Replay also takes a note from emulator software by providing an incredibly useful rewind function. This is again limited to pre-N games, but for those older titles, any time you mess up or feel like redoing a segment, you can rewind up to a minute back in the gameplay. Though there's no traditional quick savequick load functionality, the game will auto-save your spot in any older title when you quit, allowing you to jump back in at the same location. Some gamers might consider these cheap shortcuts, but it allows even the less talented players to see as much of a game as they want if they have enough perseverance.
And let's be real, it's the only way I'm going to ever finally beat the NES version of Battletoads, so I'm thankful for that.
In addition to the collection of games and tools to make playing them easier than ever, Rare Replay is packed with archival documentary footage. This includes interviews with Rare staff members past and present, video features on topics such as what qualifies something as a Rare game and even some behind-the-scenes looks at projects from the developer that never saw the light of day. Though much of it has to be unlocked by collecting stamps through playing the games, there's a lot of entertaining stuff here. Even if you don't like the developer at all, I can't imagine coming out of seeing this stuff without some level of respect for what it's done.
check that out here.
Viva Pinata: Trouble in Paradise and Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts  install separately as individual titles. This is because these inclusions are the Xbox  versions of each of those games, running off of Xbox One's new Xbox  backward compatibility functionality.
The install process is a little odd and maybe overly complex, but what's really concerning is that it seems like  at launch, at least  these Xbox  titles may not all run perfectly on the Xbox One. We ran into some framerate issues with Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts and Perfect Dark Zero in particular. We weren't able to compare these to performance on the original Xbox , but regardless it's disappointing to see a few of the games in this collection running so poorly on much more powerful hardware.
Performance concerns aside, Rare Replay demonstrates how a single developer has carried certain elements across a whole span of genres and platforms. There's a sense of ambition to Rare's catalog, of joy and whimsy, a brightness that comes through even in the more self-serious games. Rare Replay paints a picture of a studio always excited and eager to try something new, even if that new thing turned out imperfect. Whatever Rare's future, there's a history here that's worth remembering and celebrating.
here.
