MLB  The Show developer Sony San Diego makes greatness look effortless.
Few of the new elements this year are dazzling departures from the series' previous games. The studio's renewed focus on iterating on the existing core, instead of coming up with showy new features, is emblematic of its relentless dedication to refinement. Nearly every part of the game has received some attention, with notable improvements in some key areas.
MLB  is buoyed by subtle upgrades that combine to paper over a few lingering deficiencies and uphold the franchise's stellar track record.
MLB  The Show introduced two major features, Quick Counts and Player Lock, that drastically reduced the length of an average game. But last year's interminable load times on PlayStation  negated the time-saving additions. Load times are mercifully much shorter in MLB   an improvement that's particularly meaningful in a sports title, where you're constantly jumping in and out of games.
MLB  offers an entirely new method of swinging the bat that I loved immediately: directional hitting. You move the left stick during a swing to try to influence a hit in a particular direction left side, right side, fly ball, ground ball. Directional hitting is a great riskreward mechanic, amplifying your chances if you get a pitch where you're looking and reducing them if you don't.
In directional hitting, the hitting camera shifts toward the direction in which you're aiming. This makes it easier to read pitches in the area, helping you determine whether they'll be strikes or balls, and makes it tougher to get a bead on pitches elsewhere. Directional hitting is a smart addition as an intermediate setting that will help players graduate from the simple timing-based hitting to the challenging zone hitting option, where you must move the bat to the ball's location.
Sony San Diego made a meaningful change to pitching as well as batting. The new pitch trail is a wonderful tweak to the pitching interface, indicating exactly where a pitch with movement should end up in or out of the strike zone. This is much clearer than the nebulous old system of chevrons illustrating the general direction and degree of a pitch's break. It also provides a clear differentiation between pitchers of varying skill levels, and gives you the Platonic ideal of every pitch for each hurler.
This dovetails nicely with Sony San Diego's tweaks to fielding. The studio greatly reduced the magnetic attraction between a fly ball's landing spot and a fielder. This makes the act of catching pop-ups much less automatic than before, putting the onus on you to get your fielder into position at the right time without overrunning the ball. The change has definitely caused me to make more errors in the outfield, which is frustrating. Yet it fits with the increased agency that MLB  gives to fielders. It feels like you have more  control over players in the field, and defensive outcomes feel less preordained as a result.
The fields themselves are marvelous. The Show has always rendered these cathedrals of baseball spectacularly, but the addition of a realistic daynight cycle, and sun positioning that's aligned with the time of year, shows off the ballparks in a whole new light.
The fans within the stadiums do a better job of responding to the situation at hand, too. There's nothing like the feeling of the crowd coming alive as you get set to deliver a two-strike pitch, and hearing the roar when you get the punch-out. This is also reflected with MLB 's emphasis on player emotion  hitting a homer is always a great feeling, but I really got a kick out of seeing the opposing pitcher get pissed off at himself.
The audio side of MLB 's presentation doesn't match the visuals. The series' commentary is perennially some of the poorest in any sports title. Matt Vasgersian, Steve Lyons and Eric Karros still speak mostly in generic terms about the action and the players involved, and it rarely feels like there's any interplay between them. Even with new lines, the commentary remains the worst element of the game and is in dire need of a shake-up.
this trade, injuries, milestones and more. This is the kind of detail I'd love to hear from the in-game commentary.
The other changes to Franchise are smart tweaks that make the mode more realistic and engaging. General manager contracts set goals for your club that you must try to accomplish within three seasons. In addition to giving you something to strive for, the goals establish parameters for your management philosophy. Is your team a playoff contender, or rebuilding for the future?
MLB 's revamped trade logic means that CPU-controlled clubs act in accordance with their current position. Some are looking to dump high-paid players and free up their budget, and others are willing to give up prized prospects in an effort to win now. All of this made my virtual league feel more alive.
You can increase your Franchise budget by accepting sponsorships from real-life brands like Nike and Rawlings. This is a smart way to integrate those companies, whose official gear appears in The Show for the first time, without it feeling like mere product placement.
Equipment is the only noteworthy change this year to Road to the Show, the single-player career mode, allowing you to outfit your player with bats, gloves, cleats, batting gloves and superstitious "ritual" items that raise his attributes. Road to the Show remains my favorite career mode in all of sports gaming, brilliantly enmeshing you in the journey from the amateur draft to the big leagues. While I'm not thrilled that it's essentially unchanged here from MLB , it's still a tremendous experience.
MLB  is also the first game in the series to allow you to import your Franchise, Season or Road to the Show experience from the previous year, and the process is smooth as long as you're sticking with the same console. I really appreciated the ability to pick up with my career where I left off in MLB ; this is a feature whose importance can't be overstated for annual buyers.
MLB 's other main mode, Diamond Dynasty, doesn't allow for importing progress, perhaps because it received a much-needed overhaul this year. Sony San Diego greatly simplified what used to be a confusing, convoluted mess of virtual trading cards, contracts, editable fake players and real MLB athletes. You now put together a squad from your collection of MLB player cards. You can earn additional cards by playing Diamond Dynasty or  through MLB 's new overarching rewards system  any other mode, or buy them with Stubs, the in-game currency.
Every time the notification for a new card popped up, it made me want to jump back into Diamond Dynasty to see if I could put the player to good use. My main complaint with the mode is that the games take too long  they're full nine-inning affairs that you can't shorten with Quick Counts or Player Lock, even when you're playing against the CPU.
Many Diamond Dynasty games are played online, which has been a death sentence in previous years because of The Show's history of awful online play. That's perhaps the biggest area of improvement in MLB : I'm pleasantly surprised to report that I had no notable problems playing the game online. I did see some isolated instances of weirdness, like improper blending between two animations, but the experience was lag-free even when I was sitting in New York playing a friend in San Francisco.
Yasiel Puig, the flamboyant star outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers, is the cover athlete for MLB . But his appearance on the cover belies the game inside the box. Sony San Diego eschewed developing splashy back-of-the-box bullet points in favor of refining an already great game, exhibiting a confidence that is itself quietly remarkable  just like this series' consistency.
here.
