Persona  is a long, loitering tale of disaffected youth desperate for a shift in the status quo  in short, the most millennial game that Ive ever played.
Persona  and , Persona  places players into the shoes of Japanese high school students who spend as much time balancing busy social calendars as they do fighting creepy demons. It takes an anime approach to storytelling, cramming several seasons worth of plot and character development into one extremely long game, with all the expected themes of friendship, growth and change.
But what surprised me about Persona   what sets it apart from its predecessors  is just how much it has to say. Persona  is a game about rebellion, politics and enacting social change  and its not afraid to be brash and outspokenly stylish while addressing those concerns.
Told via a frame narrative  the opening moments of the game are set near the conclusion, which opens up the plot to some clever tricks later on  Persona  stars a teenage boy who eventually goes by the name Joker. After a questionable incident in his past puts him in legal trouble, Joker is sent to Tokyo to live out a year of probation at a new school, under the supervision of a new parental guardian.
Persona  wears progressive values on its sleeves, which makes its approach to non-straight romance all the more baffling. Joker can choose to start a relationship with every single female party member and non-player confidant in the game; none of the men are romanceable. This is despite the fact that one of the male party members is heavily implied to be at least bisexual, claiming to have no interest in the female form outside of art and often interacting with Joker in a flirty manner.
The lack of same-sex relationship options in Persona  would be little more than a frustrating omission, but the game pushes it into much more aggravating territory in a few scenes. Specifically, there are two recurring gag characters who are clearly homosexual. They show up at a couple of points throughout the game specifically to act effeminate and stereotypical, and to freak out Ryuji by flirting with him. Essentially, some of Persona s only examples of queer characterization are there as a terrible joke.
This would be disappointing in any game in . For a game thats explicitly about social reform and youth being misunderstood, its a complete breakdown, a hamfisted misunderstanding of the values and diversity of a younger generation.
It doesnt take long before Joker gathers a ragtag group of friends, including a disgraced ex-track star, a troubled teen model and a student council president struggling with school corruption. In true anime fashion, these friends each discover that they have a strange power: the ability to enter a bizarre shadow world known as the "Metaverse" and, once there, to summon powerful creatures called Personas.
Aside from a few wrinkles, the core plot of Persona  follows the series standard narrative closely. The big change is one of perspective. Rather than shying away from their powers or only using them when necessary, Joker and his new friends embrace those abilities. They take on a moniker  the Phantom Thieves  and learn how they can use the Metaverse to "steal" hearts, which in turn causes people in the real world to change and repent for evil theyve done.
Its all a little heavy on the hokey pseudo-science, but Persona  openly and frequently pulls its fascinating subtext into the spotlight. When the Phantom Thieves talk about stealing hearts, they're clear about the goal: to change the world. Not in a generic "make the world a better place" sense, but in very concrete, definable ways.
To be more specific still: Persona  is a game about how shitty most adults are, how theyve robbed the younger generation of a future in numerous awful ways, and how its up to that younger generation to step up, push back and force a change. Persona  also refuses to bend to irony, and despite  or perhaps because of  this overwhelming sincerity, it makes some smart and effective observations about society, what drives people to change and what allows them to refuse change even when it would almost certainly be for the better.
Persona  Golden.
While that has the potential to sound damning  particularly for this series  it ended up being less of a big deal thanks to how enthralled I was by the main story. Ill keep this spoiler-free, but Persona s plot takes some surprising twists and turns and includes a few extremely memorable villains that more than made up for the less exciting friendly characters.
Persona  also changes the social link system of the past games  now called confidants  to more directly impact gameplay. By improving your relationship with non-playable characters, youll unlock bonuses that can provide a lot of help in the games turn-based battles or in managing your ever-busy calendar. One character might unlock the ability to swap out party members on the fly during battle, while another offers to make health- and skill point-restoring items that you can take into dungeons.
The Persona series is a spin-off of Atlus long-running Shin Megami Tensei franchise, which is known for producing some pretty brutally challenging RPGs. Persona  is no slouch in this respect, particularly later in the game where enemies grow increasingly complex and staying in dungeons longer becomes harder.
As a seeming acknowledgement of the growing size of the Persona fanbase, however, Atlus has put in a number of useful difficulty options. You can choose between easy, normal and hard from the beginning, and can swap to lower or higher difficulties on the fly as you play. An extra tough difficulty level called challenge was released as downloadable content for Persona  in Japan and will presumably make its way to North America as well.
But if youre new to RPGs or not particularly interested in the combat, you might prefer another option: safety mode. Once you choose the safety difficulty, you wont be able to change back to others. However, in this mode enemies are much easier and provide far more gold and experience points, and if you die in combat, you have the option to be resurrected immediately without losing any progress. Basically, if youre looking to just enjoy the story and blow through dungeons, safety mode was made for you.
This meant that even when I wasnt particularly invested in certain characters and how their arcs played out, I was rewarded for putting time into those relationships. For example, I would suggest working on your relationship with your homeroom teacher, Ms. Kawakami, as soon as youre able. It will greatly improve your future ability to get stuff done on days when you choose to enter dungeons.
Those dungeons are excellent, by the way, and by far the biggest single point of improvement between Persona  and its predecessors. Rather than the randomized dungeons of past games, each "Palace" in the Metaverse is a meticulously designed setpiece, a series of challenges ranging from stealth to puzzles to just plain combat. Exploring dungeons was often one of the most boring parts of past Persona games; now its a delight that constantly pushed me into new ways of playing.
If you miss the old randomized dungeons, they do still exist in a totally optional form. Since you cannot return to the main story dungeons once theyve been completed, grinding is relegated to Mementos, a labyrinth that gets deeper and full of more dangerous opponents the further into the game you progress. Mementos provides a nice space to search for loot and complete side missions  including some that youll be sent on by your confidants to progress your relationship with them  but you can also completely ignore it if youd rather not worry about it.
Persona s battle system deserves some praise as well. In addition to being flashy and fun to watch  a necessity given the -plus hours the game takes to complete  combat is also much faster than in the average turn-based RPG. If you know what youre doing and dont mind fast-forwarding through the repetitive battle dialogue, the average fight can take less than a minute.
Whatever speed you play at, god, does it look so freaking good. Its rare for an RPG, of all things, to make me feel cool. But when I pulled off the rock-paper-scissors-style combos in Persona , knocked enemies out of the air and sent my whole party into an all-out attack, I felt like pulling out a pair of sunglasses and slamming them on my face while mimicking my characters victory pose. It feels good.
